
In this video, I wanna just quickly step
you through the logistics of how to work
in whole works, and just pause, and how to
use the submission system, which will let
you verify right away that you've got the
right answer for your machine learning
program exercise. Here's my octave window,
and let's just go to my desktop. I saved
the files for my first exercise some of
the files on my desktop in this directory,
emclassex1, and we provide a number of
files and ask you to edit some of them.
So, the first file we should read the
detail of. Pdf file for this [inaudible]
exercise to get the details. But one of
the files we ask you to edit is this file
called warm up exercise where, you know,
the exercise is really just to make sure
that you're familiar with the submission
system. And all you need to do is, return
the 5x5 identity matrix. So the solution
to this exercise, I'll just show you, is
to write A=i5, right. So that modifies
this function. To generate the five by
five identity matrix and this function
warm-up exercise now returns, you know,
the five by five identity matrix and I'm
just gonna save it. So I've done the first
part of this homework. Going back to my
Octave window let's now go to my directory
using /NG/Desktop/MLclass/EX1 and if I
want to make sure that I've implemented
this in type one Octave size like so, and
yup it returns [inaudible] 5x5 entity
matrix that we've just wrote the code to
create, and I can now submit the code as
follows and I type submit in this
directory and I'm ready to submit part one
so I enter you know, choice one. So that
we find e mail address. I am going to
cross word tight and this is my this is a
internal testing sight so your, your
version of website may look a bit
different but that's my e mail address and
this is my submission password ans let me
just type down here So I have ENGXCS so
Stanford IBDU and my submission password
is 9YC75. Ussgf, and when I hit enter, it
connects to the server and submits it and
right away, it tells you, you know, it
just says, congratulations, you have
successfully completed homework part one
and this gives you a verification that
you, you, you got this part right. And, if
you don't send them the right answer then,
you know, it will give you a message
indicating that you haven't quite gotten
it right yet. And, by the way You can also
cau, you can use this submission password
and you can generate new passwords. It
doesn't matter. But you can also use your
regular website login password. But
because, you know, this password here is
typed in, in clear text, you know, on your
monitor we gave you this extra submission
password in case you don't want to type in
your website's normal password on to a
window that depending on your operating
system this password may or may appear as
text when you type it in to the Octave
sub, Octaive submission script. So that's
how you submit a [inaudible] after you've
done it. Good luck and I hope you get
[inaudible] help to get all of them right.
And finally and [inaudible] with you, I
wanna tell you about vectorization which
is a way to get your [inaudible] to run
much more efficiently. [sound]
