Hi,
This question is not specific to topic modeling, but since at least
the original LDA paper uses empirical Bayes a bit, perhaps it's
permissible.
My understanding is that if you have some prior with hyperparameter
theta, then empirical Bayes will estimate theta from your data, while
"full" Bayes will introduce a hyperprior p(theta) over theta and
assume that p(theta)'s parameters (hyperhyperparameters) are fully
known. Assuming this is correct, my questions are the following:
(1) How is empirical Bayes not cheating by double counting data? It
seems like if you use data both to estimate hyperparameters and in the
likelihood, then the posterior will have inflated confidence, since
you used the data twice and so overfitted the data in a way. Is there
some way that empirical Bayes estimates regularize themselves to
compensate for this effect?
(2) It seems like unless you use some kind of noninformative
hyperprior, which may be improper and cause issues, then you have to
pick the parameters of p(theta) completely arbitrarily. On both
philosophical and mathematical grounds, how does one argue in favor of
that? Put differently, how can you justify using anything other than a
noninformative prior, since this high up in the hierarchy, it is
relatively unlikely you have domain knowledge about where theta is
supposed to be? (And it doesn't seem wholly consistent to say that you
can pick the parameters of p(theta) using domain knowledge while also
saying that it doesn't matter much what you pick, since this high up,
your parameter choices don't affect the posterior that much.)
(3) Are there theorems that give guidance on which one is better to
use in which situations, e.g. "in this situation, you are better off
introducing a hyperprior and picking some random value, as long as
p(theta) has sufficiently wide support"? Or does all this end up not
mattering much, and the choice is more about computational convenience
than anything else?
I only know a little bit about these topics, so sorry if some of these
don't make sense. Also, I am reading Carlin & Louis, but expect a book
with "Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods" in the title to potentially
err on the side of being a little too positive about the methods. :)
Thanks,
Neal
