CALL FOR PAPERS - INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS (IJCL)
ISSN: 2180-1266
Volume 3, Issue 1
Info. at http://www.cscjournals.org/csc/journals/IJCL/journal_cfp.php?JCode=IJCL
Computer Science Journals (CSC Journals) invites researchers, editors, scientists & scholars to publish their scientific research papers in an International Journal of Computational Linguistics (IJCL) Volume 3, Issue 1.
Computational linguistics is an interdisciplinary field dealing with the statistical and/or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective. Today, computational language acquisition stands as one of the most fundamental, beguiling, and surprisingly open questions for computer science. With the aims to provide a scientific forum where computer scientists, experts in artificial intelligence, mathematicians, logicians, cognitive scientists, cognitive psychologists, psycholinguists, anthropologists and neuroscientists can present research studies, International Journal of Computational Linguistics (IJCL) publish papers that describe state of the art techniques, scientific research studies and results in computational linguistics in general but on theoretical linguistics, psycholinguistics, natural language processing, grammatical inference, machine learning and cognitive science computational models of linguistic theorizing: standard and enriched context free models, principles and parameters models, optimality theory and researchers working within the minimalist program, and other approaches. IJCL is a peer review journal and a bi-monthly journal.
CSC Journals anticipate and invite papers on any of the following topics:
Comparative Surveys that Critique Previously Reports
Models of Language Change and its Effect on Linguistics
Computational Linguistics
Models that Address the Acquisition of Word-order
Computational Models
Models that Combine Linguistics Parsing
Computational Theories
Models that Employ Statistical/probabilistic Grammar
Corpus Linguistics
Models that Employ Techniques from machine learning
Formal Linguistics-Theoretic and Grammar Induction
Natural Language Processing
Information Retrieval and Extraction
Quantitative Linguistics
Language Generation
Speech Analysis/Synthesis
Language Learning
Speech Recognition/Understanding
Linguistics Modeling Techniques
Spoken Dialog Systems
Linguistics Theories
Web Information Extraction/Mining
Machine Translation
Important Dates - IJCL CFP - Volume 3, Issue 1.
Paper Submission: March 31, 2012
Author Notification: May 15, 2012
Issue Publication: June 2012
For complete details about IJCL archives publications, abstracting/indexing, editorial board and other important information, please refer to IJCL homepage.
We look forward to receive your valuable papers. If you have further questions please do not hesitate to contact us at cscpress at cscjournals.org. Our team is committed to provide a quick and supportive service throughout the publication process.
A complete list of journals can be found at http://www.cscjournals.org/csc/bysubject.php
Sincerely,
J. Stewart
Computer Science Journals (CSC Journals)
B-5-8 Plaza Mont Kiara, Mont Kiara
50480, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: + 603 6207 1607, + 603 2782 6991
Fax:+ 603 6207 1697
Url: http://www.cscjournals.org
