CALL FOR PAPERS (with apologies for cross-posting)
International Journal of Web Science  (IJWS) Special Issue on Social
Web Search and Mining
Main submission deadline: June 1st, 2012
http://www.inderscience.com/browse/callpaper.php?callID=1796
AIMS AND SCOPE
Recent years have seen a flourishing of social media. Across the
world, individuals can share news, opinions, experiences and expertise
through Web-enabled devices, including desktops, laptops, tablets and
mobile phones. There has been a fundamental shift thanks to
significant advances in the ease of publishing and sharing content.
Such examples include microblogs, blogs, bookmarking services, photo
sharing platforms, forums, newsgroups, and location-based services.
They have formed a new Web: social Web, which generates a lot of
structured and semi-structured information. This information greatly
enlarges the content of the Web. At the same time, it introduces many
interesting research issues as well many real-world applications.
These research issues have been receiving growing attentions in recent
years.
The aim of this special issue is to collect contemporary works
concerning searching and mining the Social Web. The context of the
special issue can be related to a wide range of areas including Web
mining, social networks analysis, semantic Web, information retrieval,
and natural language processing. We invite researchers and
professionals from a broad range of disciplines to submit to this
issue. Papers may encompass any or all of the following types of
works: theoretical analysis, modelling, algorithms, simulation,
visualisation and empirical studies.
SUBJECT COVERAGE
Topics of interest include but are not limited to:
Microblog (e.g. Twitter, Weibo) search and mining
Social network analysis
Community detection and network evolution analysis
Personalisation for search and for social interaction
User profiling and recommender systems
Collaborative search and question answering
Sentiment analysis and opinion mining
Topic detection and topic trend analysis
User behaviour prediction
Real-time social search and mining infrastructures
Cross-media search and mining of user-generated content
Entity search (e.g. expert finding, product search, organisation search, etc.)
Semantic Web-based social applications
Computational advertising for user-generated content
Spam detection and anomaly detection of social media
Geospatial and temporal analysis of social media
Applications of social search and mining
GUEST EDITORS
Yi Fang (fangy at cs.purdue.edu) and Zenglin Xu (xu218 at purdue.edu),
Purdue University, USA
Jiang Bian (jiang.bian.prc at gmail.com) and Ziad Al Bawab
(zalbawab at yahoo-inc.com), Yahoo! Labs, USA
IMPORTANT DATES
Submission deadline: 1 June, 2012
Notification date: 15 July, 2012
Final paper submission: 15 August, 2012
SUBMISSION GUIDELINE
Submitted papers should not have been previously published nor be
currently under consideration for publication elsewhere. (N.B.
Conference papers may only be submitted if the paper was not
originally copyrighted and if it has been completely re-written).
All papers are refereed through a peer review process. A guide for
authors, sample copies and other relevant information for submitting
papers are available on the Author Guideline page:
http://www.inderscience.com/mapper.php?id=31.
All papers must be submitted online. To submit a paper, please go to
Online Submissions of Papers:
http://www.inderscience.com/mapper.php?id=35&jid=370. If you
experience any problems submitting your paper online, please contact
submissions at inderscience.com or the Guest Editors, describing the
exact problem you experience. (Please include in your email the title
of the Special Issue, the title of the Journal and the names of the
Guest Editors)
ABOUT IJWS
IJWS is a newly launched refereed scientific international journal.
IJWS aims to improve the state-of-the-art of worldwide research in the
areas of web theories, services, applications and standards by
publishing high-quality papers in this area. IIJWS is committed to
deepening the understanding of enabling theories and technologies for
applying and developing the web as a global information repository.
