Hello,
I am looking for someone who already worked with MedLDA ('Maximum
Entropy Discrimination LDA'; Zhu, Ahmed, Xing, 2010) and who is able to
share some experience about it. I am using the official implementation
which is available at:
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~junzhu/medlda.htm
This supervised topic model uses an integrated support vector machine
approach. It can be used for regression or for classification on
document labels and is similar to sLDA.
I have some questions about this model:
1.)
As a baseline I have a simple topic model which I learned with
unsupervised LDA from a collection of training documents. I refer to
this as the baseline model. This baseline captures a set of
well-conserved topics, which, however, are not the ones I am interested
in with respect to a certain task.
Now, I want to use side-information consisting of task-relevant document
labels in order to learn more interesting topics. I think, this paradigm
is at the heart of sLDA and MedLDA. However, I have doubts about the
potential influence of supervision on the learned topic model: Should I
expect merely a modified and slightly improved version of the baseline
model, or can I truly expect a completely altered model that is unique
to the task (at least in the ideal case)?
Concerning this, in the MedLDA-paper it is said that the method is
intended to deliver a topic model which has improved accuracy with
respect to the task. Therefore, I would expect that the learned topics
represent concepts that are relevant to the task. However, the authors
also say that for complexity reasons this works better for regression
than for classification tasks. Since I am interested in a classification
task it thus seems to me that this model will not actually help me to
learn a topic model that is a big improvement upon the baseline model.
Does anyone can help me here with some experience from practice?
2.)
I am overwhelmed with the amount of parameters for the MedLDA
implementation. Can anyone suggest me some good default values for a set
of ~1000 documents and ~300 topics to start with? I would also like to
know which parameters can be left as default values and which ones are
the relevant ones that need extensive fine-tuning.
Thanks a lot for your help in advance!
Sebastian
