              0078711
Aydil

Chemically reactive gas plasmas are used widely for etching
              and deposition of thin films and enable a whole class of technologies in the
              microelectronics industry.  Despite the wide spread use and importance of such
              plasmas, optimization of plasma processes and design of plasma reactors rely
              heavily upon trial-and-error experimentation.  There is a strong need for
              fundamental understanding of the intricate and complex coupling between plasma
              physics, homogeneous and heterogeneous chemistry, and species transport in
              plasma reactors.  In particular, interactions of ions and radicals produced in
              chemically reactive gas plasmas with surfaces exposed to the discharge remain
              among the least understood aspects of plasma processing technologies.  This
              lack of knowledge on surface reaction mechanisms and kinetics is a major
              limitation to the predictive capabilities of plasma reactor models that aim to
              integrate the plasma physics with gas phase and surface chemistry.

A
              research strategy that integrates plasma and surface diagnostics with atomistic
              simulations is proposed to provide definitive conclusions about plasma-surface
              interactions during deposition of hydrogenated amorphous and nanocrystalline
              silicon films from SiH4/H2,/Ar glow discharges.  Si film deposition is chosen
              as a prototypical chemical process because of its technological importance in
              the semiconductor industry.  The proposed study aims at identifying the
              elementary surface chemical reactions that govern the plasma deposition
              mechanism, determining the corresponding reaction rates, and elucidating how
              these surface kinetic processes affect the evolution of the structure and
              composition of the surface.  Such knowledge can only be achieved through
              synergistic analysis of the experimental and simulation results.

To this
              end, atomic-scale computer simulations will be employed to study the
              interactions of silane molecular fragments, H atoms, and energetic ions from
              the plasma with the deposition surfaces.  For detailed mechanistic study of
              plasma-surface interactions, molecular-dynamics, molecular-statics, and Monte
              Carlo simulators have been developed based on interatomic potential-energy
              functions, which have been tested exhaustively to assess their validity in
              comparison with ab initio calculations and experimental data.  In addition, ab
              initio calculations within density functional theory will be used to generate
              accurate chemical reaction energy surfaces and variational rate theory will be
              employed to calculate the corresponding reaction rates.  Furthermore, hybrid
              off-lattice kinetic Monte Carlo simulations will be implemented for full-scale
              dynamical modeling of the plasma deposition process over realistic time scales.
               These computational studies will identify surface chemical reactions that
              occur on surfaces exposed to a chemically reactive plasma, analyze
              quantitatively the energetics and kinetics of these reactions, and elucidate
              the elementary steps of the plasma deposition mechanism.  The results of the
              computer simulations will be compared with experimental data and the insights
              gained from the simulations will be used to guide new experimental studies and
              design new plasma deposition strategies.

In situ surface and plasma
              diagnostic methods will be used to study the phenomena occurring in the gas
              phase and on surfaces during film growth.  Surface diagnostics will include in
              situ attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR)
              spectroscopy and in situ spectroscopic ellipsometry.  ATR-FTIR will be at the
              heart of our experimental plan: The PI's have developed this technique in order
              to study surface physics and chemistry in a plasma environment.  ATR-FTIR will
              be used to determine the growth surface composition as a function of the fluxes
              and energies of species incident onto the surface.  The plasma gas-phase
              diagnostics will include various spectroscopic methods, such as infrared and
              visible emission spectroscopy, and line-of-sight threshold-ionization mass
              spectroscopy to detect and measure the radical energies and fluxes impinging on
              the surface.

The proposed research is pioneering in linking experimental in
              situ plasma and surface diagnostics with atomic-scale dynamical modeling and
              theoretical surface reaction analysis to establish fundamental mechanistic and
              quantitative understanding of deposition surface interactions with chemically
              reactive plasmas and how this interactions evolve during the deposition
              process.  In addition, the proposed research will set the stage for developing
              an accurate chemical reaction database that can be utilized for equipment-scale
              plasma reactor modeling.  Undertaking such a challenging research effort is
              particularly timely given the recent experimental and theoretical advances in
              the field.
The scientific underpinnings of plasma processing are
              multidisciplinary and cut across traditional boundaries between different
              disciplines including physics, chemistry, chemical and electrical engineering. 
              Thus, the proposed fundamental study in plasma-surface interactions provides an
              ideal educational tool for training students and postdoctoral scholars in
              addressing technologically important research problems using an integrated
              experimental and theoretical approach.
***



