              AST-0205518
Lacy

With previous NSF support, Dr. John Lacy, at the University
              of Texas, developed the Texas Echelon Cross Echelle Spectrograph (TEXES). TEXES
              can be used in several modes: high resolution cross-dispersed, low to medium
              resolution long-slit, and source-acquisition imaging. It operates in the 5-25
              micrometer spectral region. TEXES's high resolution capabilities are unique. No
              other mid-infrared astronomical spectrograph has a comparable combination of
              resolution and sensitivity. TEXES is operated by the instrument team, but is
              available to all members of the astronomical community. Observational projects
              to be carried out by Dr. Lacy and colleagues with this award include studies of
              molecular gas in star-formation regions, ionized gas in ultracompact HII
              regions, molecules in protoplanetary disks, and molecules in planetary
              atmospheres. 

Infrared spectroscopy provides several unique probes of
              interstellar molecules, notably the ability
to study molecules like C2H2 and
              CH4 without permanent dipole moments. Initial observations
with TEXES of C2H2
              and HCN in the KL star-formation region in Orion show the lines to consist
of
              multiple narrow components indicative of fine-scale clumping of the gas.
              Further observations
will provide information about the interaction of a
              protostellar wind with surrounding gas, as well
as measurements of the
              abundances of several molecules showing the influence of star formation
              on
molecular cloud chemistry. Six regions of high-mass star formation will be
              studied. Ultracompact HII regions are prominent sign-posts of young, very
              massive stars, but their structure and especially their longevity is not well
              understood. Infrared ionic fine-structure lines have significant advantages
              over other probes of such obscured ionized gas in that they provide information
              about abundances, physical conditions, and kinematics without the large thermal
              broadening of hydrogen lines. A survey of ultracompact H II regions of various
              morphologies will be carried out with the goal of distinguishing among
              different models of these objects. In contrast to near-infrared and millimeter
              observations, mid-infrared spectroscopy of gas disks around young stars probes
              the 1-10 AU planet-forming region. Lines of H2, H2O, and possibly C2H2 and NH3
              should be observable with TEXES, although initial observations appear to
              contradict conclusions from spectra taken with the ISO satellite. If line
              Doppler profiles can be measured, they will provide information on the
              distribution of molecules with radius in the disks, perhaps showing the
              signature of forming planets. Mid-infrared spectroscopy is probably the most
              important probe of the atmospheres of the giant planets. Most of their emitted
              radiation is in the mid-infrared, and their molecular constituents have their
              spectral signatures in the mid-infrared. TEXES will be used for a variety of
              planetary studies, with current plans concentrating on stratospheric molecules
              and atmospheres of moons. 
***



