              	A grant has been awarded to Dr. Mary Spratt at William Woods University to
              acquire a DNA automated sequencer with associated computers and software; this
              will be used to determine the specific genetic "alphabet" of certain
              invertebrate organisms. Two sets of micropipetters will be purchased for use in
              DNA isolation and sequencing.  A small ultracentrifuge with essential
              components will be procured for separation and analysis of the sub-cellular
              components of these organisms. 
	The proposed research for which this
              equipment will be used focuses upon invertebrate organisms, particularly
              host-parasite interactions.   An example of the research that will be carried
              out is the relationship between various hard-bodied ticks and the bacterial
              species that live within them. One of these groups of bacteria causes
              ehrlichiosis, an entire family of tick-borne diseases. When these bacteria are
              injected with the tick's saliva as it takes a blood meal, they can cause
              serious illness or death in humans and various animals. Approximately ten
              species of bacteria that live within different ticks cause various forms of
              this disease.  However, little is known about the relationship between the tick
              and the bacteria, such as which bacteria are found in which kinds of ticks,
              whether a given species of bacterium in this locality is identical to the same
              identified species elsewhere, how similar the DNA of one bacterial species is
              to that of bacteria causing a different form of the disease, and whether a
              given tick may be co-infected with various species of Ehrlichia bacteria. This
              project will be carried out by obtaining ticks (primarily found by sweeping
              vegetation on public lands such as trails, state and national parks, and river
              or lake banks), extracting and purifying the DNA,  amplifying it on a thermal
              cycler to make a billion copies of the particular DNA fragment, determining by
              running the DNA through a gel by an electric current which DNA samples are
              positive for various species of ehrlichiosis, and then through DNA sequencing
              and analysis, comparing these results to sequences found from other ticks and
              to those recorded in gene bank data.
	Obtaining this data will help to answer
              some basic biology questions in an area that is of great importance, but has
              received relatively little attention or research funding.  Perhaps of even
              greater importance is the opportunity that this grant provides for the
              critically important training of future generations of science teachers,
              researchers, and technicians by providing students at William Woods University 
              (WWU) state-of-the-art equipment on which to participate in research as
              undergraduates, as well as to learn essential aspects of biology.  This
              equipment will enhance their acceptance into graduate programs and into the
              work force.  Additional biology curricula will be developed as a result of this
              grant, as will outreach to high school students, exciting them about the
              possibilities of careers in science. WWU graduates a majority of women; many of
              these are first-generation college students.  Less than a decade ago, the
              college had no science curriculum, faculty, or equipment.  Largely due to the
              impetus provided by NSF funding, we now have a biology major with supportive
              course work in the physical sciences, in addition to opportunities for
              undergraduate science research.  This equipment will greatly enhance these
              areas and will serve to attract both faculty and students.  It is anticipated
              that this new equipment will be utilized as well by other small colleges in our
              rural mid-west area, providing faculty and students at each of our institutions
              with the opportunity for state-of-the art teaching and research in areas of
              molecular and cellular biology previously unavailable to us.  

