              0132428
Benoit

This grant provides support for the acquisition of a
              Brinkmann automated voltammetry system (VA Trace Analyzer, Model 746) and a
              MARS 5 microwave digestion system (CEM Corp.) to facilitate measurement of
              rapid changes in chemical speciation that occur in freshwater systems as a
              result of both natural biogeochemical processes and point and nonpoint source
              pollution.  The Brinkmann voltammetry system automates basic voltammetric
              functions and combines this ability with an automatic titration system and 80
              position autosampler.  The MARS 5 Microwave Digestion system is able to digest
              colloids and particles in multiple samples rapidly and completely, and has the
              unique ability to increase analyte concentration through evaporation of the
              digestion matrix.  The information on total metal concentrations provided by
              analysis of digested samples is a necessary component in the process of
              evaluating chemical speciation.  The increased sample processing efficiency and
              reproducibility of the MARS 5 microwave digestion system will complement the
              increased sample throughput of the Brinkmann automated voltammetry system in
              improving the ability of researchers in our laboratory to measure rapid changes
              in metal speciation within freshwater systems.  Current research on metal
              complexation by NOM (natural organic matter) aims to identify easily measurable
              characteristics of NOM (e.g., spectroscopic) that can be used to estimate their
              complexation characteristics (abundance and strength of binding sites).  Future
              work on NOM will evaluate rapid variations in quantity and quality that occur
              during storm events and with changing water flowpaths through soils.  Other
              projects study metal binding by reduced sulfur compounds in fully-oxygenated
              surface waters.  This newly discovered class of ligands is poorly understood,
              but may be as important as NOM in many instances.  
***


