                   This award will support the creation of a common core facility for DNA
              sequence analysis at the University of Wisconsin.  The main component of this
              facility is a state of the art instrument for determining the sequences of the
              nucleotide bases in the DNA or RNA genetic material for any organism.  The
              participating faculty are involved in a broad range of research projects
              related to biodiversity and biotechnology.  The main projects include:
              sequencing and mutational analysis of insect and mammalian poxvirus genomes;
              analysis of genes involved in the photosynthetic pathways of cyanobacteria and
              green algae; and charting the evolutionary history of parasites and fungi. 
              These projects will identify countless new genes and greatly expand the
              understanding of genome organization.  It is anticipated that the new sequences
              will inc rease our understanding of evolutionary relationships, and the
              development of new products in biotechnology such as improved plant factories. 
              

     The following equipment will become part of the new core:  a LI-COR
              4200S-2 Gene ReadIR DNA sequencing system, a MJ Research PTC-0200 DNA engine
              thermocycler, and two G4/450 Power Macintosh computers for DNA analysis.

   
               The shared facility is aimed to foster the integration of education and
              research. The centralization of sequencing operations will enhance existing
              interactions among a number of research groups and will be vital in attracting
              new faculty and students to pursue degrees in the sciences.  It will promote
              collaborations with other institutions within the community.  Aside from
              individual research programs, several faculty members will develop laboratory
              exercises using this instrumentation to provide training for undergraduate and
              M.S. students by incorporating genomics training into such courses as the
              Biotechnology laboratory course, a Systematic Biology course, and the Combined
              Immunology/Virology laboratory course. 

