              A grant has been awarded to Dr. Nancy E. Rawson at the Monell Chemical Senses
              Center to purchase a confocal microscope with associated hardware and software.
               The Monell Center is a nonprofit research institute focused on acquiring a
              fuller understanding of the chemical senses.   Recent studies have revealed
              that cell-cell interactions play an important role in modulating the output of
              a variety of sensory receptor cells.  The confocal microscope permits us to
              directly observe intracellular processes and interactions between different
              cell types in preparations that more closely reflect those of the intact
              organism.  In addition, chemosensory cells undergo regeneration throughout the
              life of the animal.  In order to better understand this capability, studies of
              growing cells are carried out using methods to identify the different stages in
              the cells' lifespan and evaluate the effect of drugs or other treatments on the
              growth process.  
The confocal microscope will be used in projects aimed at
              addressing a variety of questions ranging from understanding how individual
              receptor cells detect and respond to chemical stimuli; how experience
              influences the ways that organisms respond to chemosensory stimuli;  how odor
              qualities are encoded in neural activity patterns in the brain; how stem cells
              divide and differentiate into mature sensory receptor cells; and how these
              sensory systems recover from damage.  These projects utilize standard
              histology, lectin and immuno-histochemistry, in situ hybridization of fixed
              tissue specimens, and biophysical methods to study live tissue.  These
              techniques provide a variety of kinds of data, ranging from protein and mRNA
              localization in peripheral and central components of the taste, olfactory and
              trigeminal systems to dynamic extra- and intracellular signalling in tissue
              slices, cultures and cell ensembles.  The system will also be included as one
              educational component in our Minority Student Research Apprenticeship Training
              Program, which has provided summer research experiences for over 300 high
              school and college undergraduates since its inception.
The ability to examine
              cells in ensembles, such as whole taste buds, or thick tissue sections will
              dramatically improve our ability to understand how the sensory systems of
              taste, smell and chemical irritation function in the intact organism.  The
              confocal microscope will also enhance our ability to provide state-of-the-art
              training experiences for students participating in our high school, college,
              graduate and post-doctoral training programs. 

