              0079278
Archer

This grant provides for the acquisition of a Rheometrics
              Scientific Melt Elongational
Rheometer (RME) and a Rheometrics Scientific
              Advanced Rheological
Expansion System (ARES). Both instruments are needed for
              investigating complex
Fluid dynamics in bulk liquids and near solid surfaces.
              The RME is the only
commercial rheometer available for studying extensional
              flow behavior of polymer melts, while the ARES rheometer is the only
              research-grade commercial instrument that allows simultaneous, time-dependent
              measurements of shear and normal stresses in polymer liquids. The proposed
              instruments will be the first of their kind at Texas A&M University, and will
              be used in four research projects and for class room demonstrations in two
              graduate-level polymer engineering courses.  In one project (DMR-9816105), the
              RME and ARES rheometers will be used to determine the fundamental origin of
              strain hardening and apparent extension thickening behavior of branched
              polymers and their blends with chemically identical linear polymers. This
              research will be facilitated by a series of novel An-A-An and An-A(A)m-An
              multi-arm polybutadienes synthesized by the principal Investigator and a
              collaborator. These polymers are believed, on theoretical grounds, to capture
              the essence of commercially important branched polyolefins and will shed new
              light on the effect of polymer architecture on relaxation dynamics and
              rheological behavior in extensional and shearing flows. In another research
              project (CMS-9713372), the ARES rheometer will be used to perfect a new
              superimposed step/steady shear flow technique recently developed by the
              principal investigator and his students for isolating dynamics of polymer
              contour length stretch in shear flows. In the third project (CTS-9624254), a
              two-step grafting procedure will be used to sequentially graft polymers and low
              molecular weight chlorosilanes to the ARES rheometer platens. The surface
              modified rheometer platens will then be used in standard shear rheological
              testing of bulk, chemically identical polymers to investigate momentum
              transport, frictional drag, wall slip, and relaxation dynamics of polymers near
              surfaces. Results from this study will provide the first rigorous test of a
              scaling theory developed by the principal investigator and his students for
              quantifying polymer friction, slip, and dynamics near solid
              surfaces.
%%%
This grant provides for the purchase of  a Rheometrics
              Scientific Melt Elongational
Rheometer (RME) and a Rheometrics Scientific
              Advanced Rheological
Expansion System (ARES). Both instruments are needed for
              investigating polymer
properties  in bulk liquids and near solid surfaces. The
              RME is the only
commercial rheometer available for studying extensional flow
              properties of
polymer melts, while the ARES rheometer is the only
              research-grade commercial instrument that allows  measurements of multiple
              components of stress in  polymer liquids. The proposed instruments will be the
              first of their kind at Texas A&M University, and will be used in four research
              projects and for class room demonstrations in two graduate-level polymer
              engineering courses. Three of the four projects are National Science Foundation
              sponsored activities related to development of structure-processing
              relationships in plastic materials and for polymer surface coatings. The
              polymer engineering courses introduce students to polymer physics and polymer
              rheology.






