              CTS-0079783
Lawrence J. Overzet
University of Texas at Dallas
MRI:
              Acquisition of a Plasma Science Research and Research Training
              Laboratory

Abstract

The acquisition and development of a plasma science
              teaching and research laboratory is a joint effort among 5 faculty members in
              the Schools of Engineering and Computer Science and Natural Science and
              Mathematics at the University of Texas at Dallas. The laboratory development
              provides five distinct plasma stations with related diagnostics on each system.
              The five plasma-generation systems and the diagnostics for them offer a diverse
              research-training experience for students. As these plasma systems were chosen
              to reflect the research interests of the faculty, this laboratory also provides
              a fertile research environment for the PIs. The facilities installed are the
              following: 1] an inductively coupled plasma (ICP) system with a residual gas
              analyzer, a Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectrometer, and an Absorption
              Spectroscopy (AS) system; 2] a dc/pulsed magnetron source for sputter
              deposition of films with optical emission spectroscopy (OES) and deposited film
              analysis; 3] a hollow cathode discharge source with a microwave interferometer
              and Langmuir probes; 4] a dc/rf parallel plate plasma source with an FTIR
              spectrometer, deposited film analysis, Langmuir probe and current-voltage
              probes; and 5] various lamps with OES, AS, and current-voltage measurement
              capabilities. 

The plasma science laboratory provides a research training
              capability at UTD for both undergraduate (upper level) and graduate students in
              Engineering and the Natural Sciences.  It encompasses a strong teaching
              component, resonates with the needs of local industry, and can potentially
              address needs of further removed industry. It will undoubtedly be used to train
              non-traditional students as well. The extensive research backgrounds and
              interests of the investigators in semiconductor processing (etching deposition
              and doping), lighting plasmas, and space plasmas allow students, as well as
              technical and research staff from local industry, to learn about basic plasma
              processes and diagnostics in the expanding fields of plasma science and
              technology. The Laboratory also enhances the research capabilities and teaming
              of the five collaborating researchers along with other investigators in both
              academe and industry. The lab is housed in modern clean room facilities, and
              consequently the equipment is suitable for both research training and for
              advanced research programs in materials processing, device manufacturing, and
              lighting. 

