              	A grant has been awarded to Dr. Steven James and Dr. Kazuo Hiraizumi,
              co-principal investigators at Gettysburg College, to procure two major items of
              equipment through the Major Research Instrumentation Program of the NSF.  A
              computerized system that integrates photodocumentation with image analysis and
              a preparative ultracentrifuge will allow the two faculty and their students to
              conduct research that cannot be executed with the equipment currently available
              at Gettysburg College.  The goals of this grant are to expand the scope and
              quality of training in molecular and cellular biology for undergraduates.
              Gettysburg College provides a research-intensive learning environment for
              undergraduates in the sciences.  Experiential, hands-on learning is encouraged
              by requiring student-faculty collaborative research for the B.S. degrees in
              Biology and Biochemistry/Molecular Biology (BMB).  Students in these degree
              programs write a research prospectus, spend at least a full semester on their
              research, write a scientific paper on their work that is evaluated by faculty,
              and present their research to their peers during an end-of-semester colloquium.
               All BMB majors are required to conduct individualized research and over 60% of
              Biology majors choose the B.S. track; a substantial number of these students go
              on to graduate school.  The instrumentation procured with NSF support will
              allow undergraduates working with Drs. James and Hiraizumi to perform
              cutting-edge research, thereby giving them excellent preparation for graduate
              school and careers in science. 

	The focus of Dr. James' research is the
              regulation of the cell cycle, a carefully orchestrated series of events that
              coordinates chromosome replication with nuclear and cell division.  Dr. James
              studies the role of genes that regulate this process, using as a model system
              the bread mold Aspergillus.  The focus of Dr. Hiraizumi's research is
              population and evolutionary genetics of gene regulation.  He studies genes that
              code for a group of digestive enzymes called peptidases, using the fruit fly
              Drosophila melanogaster.  Both faculty employ techniques of molecular genetics,
              cell biology, and biochemistry in their research.  In these fields, a most
              fundamental question involves the relationship between the DNA sequence of a
              gene and the function of the protein that it encodes.  Mutations in the
              sequence of DNA often cripple or destroy the resulting protein, which can
              produce devastating effects.  To understand the relationship between DNA
              sequence, protein function, and the physiological effects of mutations requires
              sophisticated instrumentation for isolating molecules and measuring their
              activity.  First, the ultracentrifuge provided by support from this NSF-MRI
              grant will enable isolation of large amounts of maximally pure DNA and protein.
               This preparative ultracentrifuge subjects particles or molecules to high
              centrifugal force and separates them based on differences in their density,
              size or shape.  Second, the photodocumentation /image analysis system will be
              used to measure the activity of both normal and mutant proteins.  These
              proteins will be isolated and purified using the ultracentrifuge, or by a
              different technique called gel electrophoresis.  Gel electrophoresis separates
              molecules through a gel matrix subjected to electrical current.  DNA can also
              be separated in this manner.  To detect and measure the molecules of interest,
              they are chemically stained or radioactively labeled.   The resulting signals
              are stored as electronic files, which can be analyzed for quantitative
              differences with a high degree of sensitivity and precision.  This helps to
              determine which genes are turned on under various conditions, how much of the
              protein is present, and whether there are differences in the activity of a
              protein between genetically different individuals.

	The research conducted
              by these faculty and their students addresses questions that have potential
              medical applications.  For example, many genes that regulate cell division can
              undergo mutation that leads to cancer.  In all organisms, cell division is
              governed by a similar set of genes.  Thus, investigating the regulation of
              genes that control cell division in a simple, easy-to-study model organism such
              as Aspergillus aids in understanding the molecular and cellular processes
              leading to cancer in more complex, less tractable organisms such as humans. 
              Recently, scientists discovered surprising similarity in the DNA sequence of
              human and fruit fly genes.  A mutation in a peptidase-coding gene could produce
              debilitating effects, such as a form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a fatal
              hereditary neurodegenerative disease in humans.  The use of the fruit fly
              peptidases as a model provides information on how mutations affect the
              physiological function of these enzymes in other organisms, including humans. 
              Thus, with support from the NSF-MRI grant, Gettysburg College undergraduates
              will benefit from expanded opportunities to perform modern research on relevant
              biological problems.  These experiences will in turn prepare them for graduate
              studies in molecular and cellular biology and careers in biomedical research.

