              0110840
Peck

This equipment grant provides partial support to enhance an
              environmental magnetics laboratory at the University of Akron, Ohio. The
              existing environmental magnetics laboratory contains a Molspin spinner
              magnetometer, ASC Impulse magnetizer  and Bartington susceptibility equipment.
              This proposal and cost sharing from the University of Akron will be used to
              establish a fully-functional laboratory through the acquisition of a D-Tech
              Model D-2000 AF demagnetizer, 2.5 m3 fluxgate-controlled field-free cage,
              Micromag alternating gradient magnetometer, and additional Bartington
              susceptibility sensors.  The addition of this equipment will allow the full
              suite of environmental magnetic parameters of wet sediment to be measured. The
              rock-magnetic component of environmental magnetism involves the measurement of
              the concentration, grain-size, and mineralogy of the magnetic portion of the
              sediment and is used to interpret past environmental change. The paleomagnetic
              component of environmental magnetism involves the study of the natural remanent
              magnetization of the sediment and provides a means of global stratigraphic
              correlation, dating, and insight on geodynamo processes.  Current NSF-funded
              projects in Mongolia, Africa, Russia and Turkey will make effective use of this
              equipment. Ongoing NSF research projects directed by PI, John Peck involve the
              study of past environmental change as recorded in the sediments of Mongolian
              lakes, Lake Bosumtwi, Ghana and Lake Baikal, Russia. Drs. Lisa Park, Ira
              Sasosky and Tim Matney from the University of Akron will use this equipment in
              their research of paleolimnology in Africa, archaeology in Turkey and clastic
              cave deposits in the U.S., respectively. Researchers and students from nearby
              Universities will have free-access to this new equipment thereby allowing them
              to readily utilize this equipment in their research.  Geologists at nearby Kent
              State University, Case Western Reserve University and Oberlin College have all
              expressed their interest in using this equipment that is new to the region. In
              addition, the new equipment will serve educational goals and be used
              extensively in a new Geology course titled Environmental Magnetism taught by
              PI, Peck.
***



