              The proposed research project is concerned with three classes 
of problems of
              algebraic combinatorics.   They are related to 
several aspects of Schubert
              calculus and its links with 
representation theory, inverse boundary problems,
              algebraic 
geometry, and physics.  The first part is devoted to the
              inverse
boundary problem for certain class of networks.  This problem
              
emerged in an attempt to explain, generalize, and simplify 
algebraic and
              combinatorial constructions related to 
representation theory of general
              linear groups and canonical 
bases.  It is directly linked to the study of
              total positivity on
Grassmann manifolds.  The second part focuses on
              combinatorial 
and algebraic problems came up in quantum Schubert calculus,
              which 
deals with quantum cohomology of complex flag manifolds and
              
corresponding Gromov-Witten invariants.  The third part is devoted 
to a new
              approach to smoothness of Schubert varieties.  The 
investigator and his
              colleague suggest how to extend the notion 
of pattern avoidance in a general
              context of root systems. 

The main goal of the proposed research project is
              to investigate 
several problems that originally came from various areas, such
              as 
geometry and physics, and all share a discrete nature.  The 
investigator
              suggests an approach to the problem of identification 
of networks by boundary
              measurements.  These networks present a 
simple model for computer microchips.
               The problem can be rephrased
as follows: "How to identify a microchip by
              external examination?"  
Another problem is related to certain geometric
              invariants that play 
a role in mathematical physics and algebraic geometry. 
              These 
invariants are usually extremely hard to calculate.  The 
investigator
              and his colleagues suggest a new efficient technique 
for computing invariants
              of this kind.   The last part concerns 
with a new approach to the classical
              problem of smoothness.
