              

Proposal #:	0220601
PI:		Judith L. Gersting
Institution:	University of
              Hawaii at Hilo
Title:		ALOHA - A Learning Opportunity for High
              Achievers


This CSEMS program provides support for a cohort of 15 students
              for 4 years to complete the Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science.
              Three target population groups have been identified, with the intent to secure,
              as much as possible, an equitable representation of students from each group:
              traditional high school graduates, community college transfer students, and
              students from U.S.-affiliated Pacific Islands, including U.S. territories of
              American Samoa and Guam, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated
              States of Micronesia (FSM), the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands
              (CNMI), and the Republic of Palau (Belau).

Students are selected based not
              only on academic ability and financial need, but also on their understanding of
              the rigors of the degree requirements. Student support services for the first
              two years include both academic and social support structures in an attempt to
              improve retention. These services concentrate on mentoring and providing
              supplemental instruction. The following two years include an emphasis on skills
              and opportunities to transition to a high technology workforce, and exposure to
              career opportunities. 

The program builds on existing strengths such as the
              quality of the computer science degree program, a caring faculty, a high sense
              of identity among computer science majors, and support services and activities
              designed to broaden the path to graduation for students. Consistent with the
              program guidelines, academically talented but financially disadvantaged
              students are identified, challenged, supported, and guided through completion
              of the degree and on into the workforce.


