              This project is using the twin themes of spectroscopy and photochemistry as a
              conceptual basis for developing chemistry lectures and chemistry laboratories
              in upper level undergraduate courses which are logical extensions of the
              materials presented in the lower level courses. This intergrated approach aims
              to provide students with a clearer connection between the concepts presented at
              different stages in their undergraduate education in chemistry. The project is
              also producing software modules which are "Spectroscopy Tutors" that aim to
              facilitate the learning of spectroscopy (IR, UV-VIS, NMR) and assist in the
              intergration of spectroscopy and photochemistry throughout the undergraduate
              curriculum including undergraduate research. These visions are being achieved
              through a collaboration with Professor Leonard Fine and students at Columbia
              University. In addition, partnerships have been established with faculty at two
              undergraduate institutions (Professor Tom Poon, Claremont Colleges and
              Professor Raymond Dominey, University of Richmond) and a community college
              (Professor Ron Rusay, Diablo State College). The project couples the
              undergraduate institutions by establishing an undergraduate exchange program in
              which students from the undergraduate institutions spend a summer at Columbia
              University under the mentorship of the PI, extending and enriching research
              projects, which are initiated in the academic year. The PI is also mentoring an
              undergraduate selected from Columbia Unversity's Minority Affairs summer
              research program for undergraduates. The PI is mentoring a postdoctoral
              associate who is involved in all aspects of the project and in particular the
              intergration of research and education of undergraduates. The postdctoral
              associate is assisting the PI in the development of course materials, the
              development of IT tools for courses and laboratories and in the development of
              course materials, the development of IT tools for course and laboratories, and
              the development of the photochemical experiments for the undergraduate
              laboratories and for undergraduate research. The outcomes of the project will
              be disseminated through presentations at professional meetings, publications in
              professional journals and an annual workshop led by the partnering faculty. As
              part of the dissemination effort, the Spectroscopy Tutors produced will be made
              available to undergraduates across the nation via the world wide web. In
              addition, the PI is producing a web based video course in which he teaches
              undergraduates spectroscopy and organic photochemistry. As part of the course,
              modules are being developed to assist the students in learning the fundamental
              principles of organic photochemistry. It is anticipated that the course and
              laboratory materials, as well as IT modules developed in the project, can also
              be profitably employed in the curriculum for the non-SMET education of
              undergraduates. In collaboration with the Associate Dean for Assessment at
              Columbia University, the PI is defining the desired educational objectives for
              the students' experiences in the courses and laboratories and IT modules. This
              assessment process aims to measure student performance on course-specific tests
              and on the effectiveness of the Spectroscopy Tutors in the enhancing of
              learning by students.

