              The object of this research is to measure fluid velocities to within 0.1 mm of
              the body surface of a freely swimming fish, and use these measurements to
              determine drag and other characteristics of the unsteady flow field. Up until
              now, the drag of a swimming fish has not been definitively measured, yet its
              value is important for determining how much power a fish uses for locomotion.
              In the past, researchers have used a "rigid-body" concept, in which the drag of
              an equivalently shaped object stretched straight in the flow is used as a proxy
              for the swimming case. Such estimates have led to a number of contradictory
              conclusions about fish swimming ability. There is no doubt that the lateral
              body motion used by fish for propulsion will alter the fluid velocities near
              the fish body. How these changes to the velocity field affect the drag remains
              unknown. The major source of drag on any streamline body, rigid or swimming, is
              confined to a very thin layer of fluid along the body surface. Within the very
              thin layer, called the "boundary layer", fluid velocity increases from zero at
              the body surface to approximately the speed of the current in only a few
              millimeters. In order to measure the drag of a swimming fish, high-resolution
              measurements of the fluid velocities must be made within this microscopic
              region and also just outside the boundary layer in the "near-field." For this
              research, non-invasive techniques based on digital particle image velocimetry
              are used to measure flow velocity in the boundary layer and near field of
              swimming fish. Pressures and shear stresses over the body surface are
              determined from these measurements and combined to form estimates of total
              viscous and pressure drag. The nature of the flow is analyzed to determine if
              the boundary layer is laminar or turbulent and if the boundary layer has
              separated over any part of the fish body. These questions have been debated for
              years and are important for examining proposed drag-reducing capabilities in
              swimming fish. Five local species of fish will be used in a comparative study.
              These include scup, Atlantic mackerel, American eel, and two local dogfish
              species.  These species encompass a range of swimming motions from anguilliform
              to carangiform modes. Scup are also included because the observed drag can be
              compared to existing measurements of in vivo muscle power. The results of this
              study will further the understanding of how fish swim and how fish power
              swimming with their muscles. The results will also improve understanding of
              energetic behavior as it applies, for example, to migration, schooling
              behavior, and flow sensing by the fish lateral line. 
