              There has been an increasing trend to conduct scientific research using
              numerical simulations on modern high performance computers in recent years. 
              Considerable progress has been made in the area of computational material
              sciences. Computational tools have been used in the design of new materials as
              well as in the study of their properties. The central objectives of this
              project are: 1) to develop or refine certain mesoscale and macroscale models,
              so to enlarge the range of physical problems for which such  models are valid;
              2) to analyze these models in order to gain further understanding of their
              properties and solutions; 3) to develop, analyze, and implement algorithms, in
              particular, parallel and adaptive algorithms, for the numerical simulation of
              these models; and 4) to use our algorithms and codes to study some interesting
              phenomena in material sciences.

In the proposed work, the principal
              investigator will study models and develop numerical algorithms for some
              interesting  material sciences problems that involve multiscale (mesoscale and
              macroscale) and stochastic effects,  such as problems related to vortices and
              other defects in superconductivity and magnetism. A major part of the project
              is aimed at increasing the range of applications for the mesoscale codes and
              allow more comparative studies between the mesoscale and macroscopic models
              through the use of domain and scale decomposition/integration and adaptive
              computation techniques. The codes for mesoscale models can be of use in gaining
              information and insight about the physical behavior and interaction of the fine
              structures (such as vortices) with, for example, boundaries, interfaces,
              impurities, currents, and thermal fluctuations. They can be of indirect use to
              device designers, in particular, when connections with macroscopic properties
              can be identified. Models based on the stochastic partial differential
              equations and their numerical simulations will also be given emphasis, so as to
              gain insight to the macroscopic effect of thermal fluctuations and impurities
              in the materials like superconductors and liquid crystals. The work will be
              aimed at making the computational codes robust, efficient, flexible, accurate,
              scalable and user-friendly. It is hoped that these codes can be used by
              physicists, material scientists, and engineers in laboratories, universities,
              and industrial organizations as a tool for studying some specific material
              properties and also a tool in designing devices.  


