              This research will focus on galectins-1 and -3 as pre-mRNA splicing factors. 
              Galectins are a family of saccharide-binding proteins that (i) has a specific
              affinity for galactose/lactose and (ii) shares a characteristic amino acid
              sequence in the carbohydrate recognition domain.  In terms of cell biology,
              several galectins share another intriguing feature - dual localization.  Some
              galectins are found in both the extracellular and intracellular compartments. 
              This laboratory previously demonstrated that galectin-3 was a new and novel
              splicing factor and documented that another family member, galectin-1,
              exhibited nuclear localization and functioned as a splicing factor.  Thus, the
              splicing activities of galectins-1 and -3 appear functionally redundant.  The
              requirement of galectin-1 or -3 in pre-mRNA splicing indicates a second
              biologic role for these proteins in addition to their carbohydrate-binding
              activity.  Are the two activities connected or autonomous?  A galectin-1 mutant
              incapable of binding lactose is splicing competent in an assay carried out in
              the presence of lactose to inhibit endogenous galectins.  These preliminary
              results hint that the splicing and carbohydrate-binding activities of
              galectin-1 are independent.  Recently, using a yeast two-hybrid screen, this
              laboratory identified Gemin4 as an interacting partner for galectin-1 (and, by
              inference, galectin-3).  Using an in vitro assay, the laboratory determined
              that both galectins directly bind to Gemin4.  Gemin4 is a component of the SMN
              (survivor of motor neurons) complex - a large macromolecular machine containing
              at least 12 polypeptides found in the nucleus and the cytoplasm.  The nuclear
              SMN complex localizes to subnuclear structures termed gems and functions to
              supply snRNP particles to the splicing apparatus. Preliminary
              immunoprecipitation experiments using anti-SMN and anti-galectin-1 antisera
              showed that both SMN and galectin-1 proteins are in a nuclear complex which
              also contains galectin-3, Gemin2, hnRNP C and Sm B/B' and D polypeptides of the
              snRNPs.  These data provide in vivo evidence that galectins interact with a
              macromolecular complex involved in pre-mRNA splicing.  An emerging theme in
              cell biology proposes that biosynthetic processes are orchestrated by complex
              macromolecular machines that are dynamically changing and interconnected.  The
              convergence of the SMN complex and galectins-1/-3 on the spliceosomal H-complex
              makes it essential to characterize the various nuclear machines/complexes in
              detail.  Thus, the specific objectives of this project include: (1) delineate
              and characterize components and interactions of nuclear complexes in which
              Gemin4 and galectins-1 and -3 have been found, (2) define the step(s) in which
              galectins-1 and -3 participate in splicing and, (3) define the role of the
              carbohydrate-binding site of galectins-1 and -3  in pre-mRNA splicing
              activity.

An emerging concept in cell biology is that biosynthetic processes
              are orchestrated by complex, dynamically changing "machines" composed of many
              individual molecules, at least some of which can associate with and dissociate
              from the machine in response to changing cellular needs.  This research
              promises to advance the understanding of this important process.

