              0118665	
Harwood

This award, provided by the Office of Polar Programs of the
              National Science Foundation, provides support for US participation in workshop
              and planning activities of the international Antarctic Drilling Consortium
              (ANDRILL). Cenozoic stratigraphic records recovered through drilling from
              continental shelf and deep-sea areas around Antarctica have provided an
              interesting yet incomplete history of paleoclimate, ice sheet and tectonic
              evolution of this region. The paucity of exposures of Cenozoic strata, due to
              the present ice cover, requires the collection of geological data from
              drillcores. Much has been learned over the last 20 years of drilling by the
              DSDP, ODP and via the fast-ice drilling of the MSSTS, CIROS and Cape Roberts
              projects. A new drilling initiative, ANDRILL, is in an early stage of
              development, with an initial focus in the McMurdo Sound area, using the Cape
              Roberts Project technology. A workshop at Oxford University will bring together
              key scientists with the goal of establishing the scientific objectives and a
              structure of international collaboration to launch this major initiative in the
              Earth sciences. The development of the Cape Roberts Project followed a similar
              course of workshops and planning meetings in the late 1980's and 1990's.
              ANDRILL will continue to build on the success and approach of the Cape Roberts
              Project, but will be of broader temporal, spatial, and thematic scale. Major
              aims of ANDRILL are: 1) to obtain high-resolution (1 to 100 thousand-year),
              seismically linked, chronologically well-constrained, stratigraphic records
              from the Antarctic continental margin; 2) to determine the fundamental behavior
              of ancient ice sheets, and to understand better the factors driving ice sheet
              growth and decay on decadal to million year time scales; 3) to investigate the
              role of Antarctic ice sheets on long- and short-order Cenozoic-Recent global
              climate sea-level elevation and ocean circulation; and 4) to document the
              evolution and timing of major Antarctic rift and tectonic systems and the
              stratigraphic development of associated sedimentary basins, uplift of the
              adjacent rift shoulders, volcanic history, stress regimes and tectonic forcing
              of climate. 

This award supports the development and initial management of
              the U.S. involvement in the ANDRILL Program through the travel of U.S.
              scientists to the workshop in Oxford and to cover the cost of the U.S.
              subscription into ANDRILL for the first three years. Results of the workshop
              will be circulated to the wider geological community, within and beyond the
              Antarctic sphere, through the production and dissemination of a workshop
              report, a glossy summary document, and the construction of an ANDRILL web site.
               In addition to the support for the ANDRILL Workshop, funds are requested to
              support the management of U.S. efforts in ANDRILL, including the communication
              and interaction with ODP, ANTOSTRAT, and the SHALDRIL initiative. International
              collaboration established through the Cape Roberts Project will be nurtured 
              and expanded under ANDRILL.  Initial drilling targets are in the Western Ross
              Sea, where eight drilling objectives have been proposed (the McMurdo Sound
              Portfolio). 




