              



The Telluride Workshops arose from a strategic decision by the NSF
              to
encourage the interface between Neuroscience and Engineering.
              The
recommendation was for NSF to organize and fund a hands-on workshop to
              draw
together an international group of scientists interested in
              exploring
neuromorphic engineering. This new field seeks to design and
              fabricate
artificial neural systems, such as vision systems, head-eye
              systems,
auditory systems and autonomous robots, whose architecture and
              design
principles are based on those of biological nervous systems.

The
              three-week long Telluride Workshops, have been held annually since then
(cf.
              the Telluride homepage at http://www.ini.unizh.ch/telluride2000/).
              The
workshop includes background lectures, practical tutorials on analog
              VLSI
design, hands-on projects, and special interest groups. There are two
              daily
tutorials covering general material. Participants are free to explore
              topics
of their own choosing in the afternoon; while  projects and interest
              groups
meet in the late afternoons, and after dinner.

About 60 people are
              invited to the workshop. Participants are from academia,
government
              laboratories, and industry. Backgrounds span physics, robotics,
computer
              science, neurophysiology, electrical engineering, and
              computational
neuroscience.  The workshop provides background material in
              cellular and
systems neuroscience, all aspects of analog VLSI design,
              simulation, layout,
and testing as well as sensorimotor integration and active
              vision systems.
Working groups are established in a variety of areas such as
              robotics and
Central Pattern Generators, sensorimotor interactions,
              inter-chip
communications, active vision, audition, and spatial localization
              using
vision and audition together, attention and selection, locomotion
              and
industrial applications.




