              Proteins containing long coiled-coil domains have been found in animals and
              yeast to be involved in attaching signaling molecules to the large, solid-state
              components of the cell, such as membrane systems, centromeres, centrosomes, or
              the nuclear scaffold. There is growing evidence that they play an important
              role in the spatial and temporal regulation of protein positioning in the cell.
              In contrast, this group of proteins has been barely investigated in
              plants.

The goal of this Arabidopsis 2010 project is to identify all
              Arabidopsis proteins that contain long stretches of coiled-coil domains, and to
              functionally characterize a subgroup that has been implicated in plant nuclear
              envelope targeting. Preliminary research has identified over 1000 predicted
              coiled-coil proteins in the Arabidopsis genome, almost 70% of which are
              "unknown proteins". Examples of coiled-coil proteins with sorting signals for
              all major compartments of the plant cell have been identified.

To begin a
              functional investigation of this large and uncharacterized protein class in
              Arabidopsis, a twofold approach will be taken:

(1) An automated
              computational platform will be established on a multi-processor cluster that
              will allow: (a) to identify all long (50 amino acids or longer) coiled-coil
              proteins in Arabidopsis by structural prediction algorithms; (b) to integrate
              the output with a battery of sequence and structure analysis programs to
              establish predicted nuclear, organellar, and membrane localization, family
              relationships, functional domains, and other relevant features; and (c) to
              create a publicly available, searchable database of Arabidopsis coiled-coil
              proteins, to which experimental data such as subcellular location,
              protein-protein interactions, and mutant phenotypes will be added.

(2) A
              group of 16 coiled-coil proteins of unknown function, which bind to Arabidopsis
              WPP-domain proteins, will be functionally investigated. The WPP domain is a
              nuclear envelope-targeting domain unique to plants, which is involved in
              positioning Ran GTPase activating protein (RanGAP) at the nuclear rim. A group
              of coiled-coil proteins has been experimentally identified, which specifically
              recognize the WPP domain. The hypothesis is that some of the identified
              proteins are specific subcellular anchors for WPP-domain proteins. This will be
              tested by investigating: (a) the in vitro and in vivo binding specificity of
              the full-length proteins; (b) their subcellular localization; (c) knockout or
              RNAi phenotypes; and (d) the effect of coiled-coil protein knockouts on the
              subcellular positioning of WPP-domain protein-GFP fusions.

The first
              approach will provide an accessible bounty of information about features that
              can help build informed hypotheses about the function of individual proteins.
              The second approach will directly investigate the function of 16 coiled-coil
              "unknown proteins" on a molecular, cellular, and whole-plant level.

A list
              of the accession numbers of the genes to be analyzed during this project can be
              found at http://www.arabidopsis.org/info/2010_projects/index.html. Experimental
              data will be made available by publication and subsequently by incorporation
              into a publicly available database accessible as link from
              http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/~plantbio/Faculty/meier.html. Resources such
              as Arabidopsis lines and plasmids will be made available through the ABRC. This
              project will provide training opportunities for graduate and undergraduate
              students at the interface of molecular cell biology and bioinformatics. On a
              broader scope, the investigation of spatial organization of signaling in plant
              cells might lead to future approaches in developmental engineering of crop
              plants. 


