              
Abstract for DMS - 0104116.

This proposal consists of seven items. The
              first item is a joint
project of the two principal investigators and returns
              to previous
joint work on the wave trace for a manifold with boundary, in
              order to
sharpen and simplify the earlier results by defining the wave
              trace,
not as a trace on the space of initial data of the wave equation,
              but
as a trace on the space of boundary data.  The second item is a
              joint
project of Guillemin and K. Okikiolu and involves refinements of
              a
recent result on ``two-tiered'' asymptotics for Szego estimates. The
third
              item is a joint project of Guillemin with C. Zara, and concerns
the interplay
              between graph theory and topology on GKM manifolds. The
fourth item is a joint
              project of Melrose and P. Loya extending the
Atiyah-Patodi-Singer index
              theorem to manifolds with corners. The
fifth item involves on-going work of
              Melrose and R. Mazzeo and the
beginning of a project with D. Grieser to
              analyze the Laplacian on
singular algebraic varieties by blow-up and
              pseudodifferential
methods. The sixth project involves Melrose, A. Hassell and
              A. Vasy in
the description of scattering by potentials which are smooth up
              to
infinity. The final item is a joint project of Melrose and J. Wunsch
in
              which the propagation of singularities for waves on manifolds with
conic
              singularities is investigated.

A common theme of the items above is the wave
              equation and related
techniques. For instance, one of the important
              applications of the joint
project of the two principal investigators will be
              to the understanding of
the reflection of waves in a domain in the plane. For
              a convex planar
domain the results of this project should shed light on the
              celebrated
problem: "Can one hear the shape of a drum", that is, do the
              frequencies of
vibration of a planar domain, corresponding to the head of a
              drum,
determine its shape? Earlier work of the investigators showed that
              these
frequencies of vibration determine the so-called "length spectrum" of
              the
domain, namely the lengths of inscribed polygons of
              minimal
circumference. One result of the investigation above should be
              a
determination of the SHAPES of these polygons as well.


