              This project is concerned with the asymptotic and exact enumeration of perfect
              matchings of certain lattice graphs (or, in an equivalent language, enumeration
              of tilings of the regions dual to these graphs) that turn out to be closely
              related to several important problems in combinatorics (enumeration of spanning
              trees, plane partitions, alternating sign matrices), and that appear in
              statistical physics in the guise of the dimer model.  Specifically, motivated
              by the monomer-monomer correlation introduced by Fisher and Stephenson, and
              based on the exact enumeration found by the proposer of the tilings of certain
              hexagonal regions with triangular holes along their symmetry axes (which
              generalizes MacMahon's theorem on counting plane partitions), the proposer
              pursues extending his work on the asymptotic enumeration of tilings in the
              situation when the holes are not necessarily on the symmetry axis of the
              region.  This should bring useful insight into an important conjecture of
              Fisher and Stephenson concerning the rotational invariance of the
              monomer-monomer correlation. Furthermore, the proposer studies three additional
              problems.  First, the proposer pursues extending the arguments that allowed him
              to prove directly one identity from a set of four similar identities he found
              relating eight of the ten symmetry classes of plane partitions to the remaining
              three identities.  This would help explaining the still mysterious fact that
              all ten cases are enumerated by simple product formulas and would bring close
              to completion the task of finding combinatorial proofs for all ten cases. 
              Second, the proposer continues his work on the three dimensional dimer problem
              by considering the question of improving the lower bound, employing extensions
              to three dimensions of the Gessel-Viennot and Kasteleyn theorems that yield
              signed enumerations.  And third, the proposer uses a generalization of his
              complementation theorem for perfect matchings to classify the periodic
              weightings of the Aztec diamond that lead to simple product enumeration
              formulas, thus giving a unified perspective on several results of Elkies,
              Kuperberg, Larsen and Propp, B. Y. Yang, Stanley and the proposer.

This
              research is in the general area of Combinatorics. One of the goals of
              Combinatorics is to find efficient methods of studying how discrete collections
              of objects can be arranged.  The behavior of discrete systems is extremely
              important to modern communications.  For example, the design of large networks,
              such as those occurring in telephone systems, and the design of algorithms in
              computer science deal with discrete sets of objects, and this makes use of
              combinatorial research.  The specific problems in this project are instances of
              the dimer model of statistical physics.  A basic illustration of this is the
              real-world process (relevant to the study of of lubricants) of adsorption of a
              liquid, consisting of two-atom molecules --- the dimers in the model --- along
              the surface of a crystal, whose fixed atoms form a lattice pattern, with any
              two neighboring positions capable of holding one molecule, and any given
              crystal atom being involved in the adsorption of at most one molecule.  The
              main issue in this setting is the asymptotic behavior of the quantities that
              are studied (specifically, the number of different ways the surface of the
              crystal can be covered by molecules), but it turns out in the present context
              that the usually more difficult problem of determining quantities exactly
              allows progress in the asymptotic study.

