              Early Bird is a large-scale, cooperative effort among five institutions in the
              U.S., one in Scotland and two in Australia to determine the evolutionary
              relationships among all major groups of birds. The project will make these
              relationships known to the research community and the public, and make it
              possible to use these relationships as a comparative framework with which to
              organize and understand the vast amount of information already available on
              avian ecology, evolution, physiology, and behavior.  The project will generate
              large amounts of DNA sequence data for all major avian lineages from a series
              of carefully selected genes. These data will be integrated with existing and
              new morphological and fossil data to bring all relevant evidence to bear on the
              problem. Extensive analysis of the evidence will be conducted with the rapidly
              expanding suite of computational tools available for the inference of
              relationships, divergence times, and evolutionary patterns.  The data will be
              made accessible to other researchers in an online database with tools for
              analysis and export, and to the general public through a website with
              background information on the importance of evolutionary relationships,
              progress reports on the project, and interactive educational tools with which
              interested persons can explore the data themselves.
The immediate results of
              this project will be to provide a detailed, comprehensive and robust estimate
              of the "family tree" of avian relationships, and to facilitate the use of that
              tree to organize and interpret other information about birds. The impact of
              this project on science and society will be far-reaching. Birds are among the
              most prominent and engaging creatures in most ecosystems worldwide.  They have
              been the subject of an extraordinary number and diversity of scientific studies
              that figure largely in our understanding of the natural world and humanity's
              place in it.  Their position high in many food chains together with their great
              mobility makes them sensitive indicators of environmental quality, and
              monitoring of bird populations is widely used to set conservation and
              management priorities. Their powers of flight, physical beauty, and captivating
              behaviors amaze and inspire us, and birds provide tremendous amounts of
              recreation for serious hunters and birders, as well as millions of backyard
              birdwatchers each year.  All of these human interactions with birds will be
              enriched by a better understanding of avian evolutionary history and genetic
              diversity, which Early Bird will provide. 

