              T. Healey and P. Rosakis plan to study various problems from solid
              continuum
mechanics governed by nonlinear partial differential equations.  A
              major
thrust of the proposed work will be on the static morphology and
              dynamic
evolution of microstructure due to phase transitions in
              two-dimensional
models of shape-memory alloys.  In contrast to well-known
              absolute,
minimum-energy approaches to the statics problem, we plan to employ
              modern
techniques of symmetry-breaking, bifurcation theory.  The latter
              enables
systematic determination of metastable states, which we believe our
              ensuing
dynamical studies will show to be associated with hysteresis. 
              Another
aspect of the work will involve applications of a generalized
              topological degree
(developed previously by Healey & Simpson) to global
              bifurcation problems
of nonlinear elasticity - these will be the first such
              results in
three-dimensional elasticity.  The overall goals of the work are to
              detect
new nonlinear phenomena, obtain constitutive restrictions that are
              both
physically and mathematically reasonable for general classes of
              materials,
and to develop new tools/approaches to such nonlinear problems -
              both
analytical and computational.  The proposed approach comprises a blend
              of
solid continuum mechanics, materials science, nonlinear analysis,
              symmetry
and group-theoretic methods and computation.

The analysis of
              models of nonlinear materials at a very general level is fundamental 
to the
              understanding of shape-memory effects in certain advanced engineering
alloys
              as well as more traditional engineering materials/structures.  The
proposed
              investigation is strongly interdisciplinary, combining models and
techniques
              from mechanics, materials science and modern mathematics.
Broadly speaking the
              work will provide new mathematical approaches to
difficult nonlinear problems
              arising in structural/mechanical engineering
and materials sciences.  This has
              the potentia of leading to a better understanding of
material behavior and
              design - including the design of "smart" structures.


