              This project focuses on the intricate combination of biological and
              physicochemical processes by which dissolved organic matter (DOM) is formed and
              cycled in the ocean. The interlinked biological and physical processes by which
              bioactive elements are cycled in the ocean represent one of the most
              complicated and critical systems on earth. Although living organisms are the
              ultimate source and sink of the organic matter in which these elements
              primarily cycle, the major currency for both their active transfer and
              long?term storage in the ocean is as small, nonliving organic molecules. This
              "molecular prerogative" results because the biomacromolecules composing
              organisms and tissues must be broken down to inert subunits to pass bacterial
              cell walls prior to complete intracellular respiration. In the ocean, much of
              this molecular dismantling is accomplished by bacterial exoenzymes operating on
              organic substrates. Nutrient elements carried through this "bacterial loop"
              become available for conversion back to living particulate form either through
              photosynthesis or via transfer of bacterial production up food webs through
              protists and zooplankton. Such biologically mediated cycling between dissolved
              and particulate organic forms is critical on a larger scale to the transfer and
              fate of nutrients because only particles can sink to selectively transport
              bioactive elements from the lighted surface ocean into deep storage below the
              thermocline (i.e., the biological pump). Recent evidence for spontaneous
              assembly of colloidal marine molecules into microscopic polymer gels has
              fundamentally changed the way that oceanographers think about processes linking
              the microbial loop and biological pump to the rest of the biosphere and the
              geosphere. The key observation was that colloidal?size organic molecules found
              in surface seawater can coalesce spontaneously. The resulting particles
              (microgels) are sufficiently large to sink and might undergo other processes
              such as catastrophically collapsing to dense forms after passing sharp
              thresholds of temperature, pressure or pH. Our group has also recently found
              that these microgels are degraded approximately an order of magnitude faster by
              marine bacteria than the dispersed molecules from which they are formed,
              apparently by providing an effective means for abiotically concentrating
              substrate for efficient exoenzymatic dismantling. This project is an
              interdisciplinary focus on the role of these microgel particles in carbon
              cycling processes.
