              This workshop will bring together a multidisciplinary collection of
              mathematicians, statisticians, computer scientists, biological scientists, and
              social scientists for the purpose of developing models of complex networks in
              both human and biological systems, with special emphasis given to integration
              of social and ecological networks.  The specific objectives used to structure
              the workshop are:  (1) establishing common ground; (2) modeling of complex
              systems; (3) interfacing and extension; (4) visualization and exploration; and
              (5) data quality issues.  Thirty experts in the various disciplines have been
              invited to participate in a three-day workshop at the Duke Marine Laboratory in
              March of 2001.  Prior to the meeting, in order to establish common ground, we
              will distribute to each participant a statement of purpose, key readings, and a
              lexicon of analogous terms used in the various disciplines.  The workshop will
              commence with a full day of focused presentations, a second day devoted to
              breakout groups focusing on the last four objectives, and a final day where
              breakout group summaries and recommendations will be synthesized using
              rapporteurs.  The attendees will: identify the common issues of complexity
              across disciplines, the limitations to cross fertilizations of ideas, and ways
              to overcome these limitations; explore the appropriateness of various
              mathematical and statistical network models and analyses developed by
              mathematicians, statisticians, and social and biological scientists applicable
              to the study of complex biological systems; explore the inclusion of human
              system dynamics, both of a trophic and non-trophic nature, into models of
              complex biological systems; develop and improve computer based tools for the
              exploratory visual analysis of complex biological systems; and, address issues
              concerning the quality of data used in modeling biocomplexity in food webs and
              trophic networks. 

Both social scientists and ecologists use network models
              to study complexity.  However, current computer-based methods of the study of
              complexity in human and biological systems are not fully developed.  Most
              significantly, these models lack integration of human and ecological networks. 
              Until now, there has been much work done on a variety of fields in complexity,
              but there has been little contact among researchers in the various fields, each
              field forming an "invisible college."  Recently, social scientists and
              ecologists have recognized their parallel efforts and have begun collaboration.
               Short-term products of this workshop will include publications from the
              attendees, but the greater significance will come in the long-term with
              increased collaboration among scientists from different backgrounds.  This
              workshop will aid in promoting such collaboration and has the potential to
              contribute significantly to a better understanding of various problems in the
              study of biocomplexity.  This incubation activity was funded as part of the
              FY2000 Biocomplexity Special Competition.


