              PI: Cary		Proposal: 0102648	                      

The project by S. Craig
              Cary, University of Delaware is supported by the program Biocomplexity in the
              Environment, subprogram Genomic-Enabled Environmental Science and Engineering
              (BE GEN-EN).  The project focuses on symbiotic associations in deep-sea thermal
              vent communities. 

Closely integrated symbiotic associations between
              bacteria and eukaryotic hosts abound in nature. This is particularly the case
              in marine systems where novel associations are being routinely discovered.
              Whether the bacteria reside externally to the host or endosymbiotically the
              functional role of these associations often remain poorly understood. This lack
              of understanding, in part, stems from our inability to cultivate the majority
              of these symbionts free from their host.  Even in instances where cultivation
              is possible, it is unlikely that the physiological capacities of bacteria
              measured in the laboratory truly represent those in the natural ecosystem. The
              majority of episymbiont associations exist as a phenotypically and
              phylogenetically mixed population making it extremely difficult to decipher the
              role of independent members. 

This project will employ a community level
              genomic approach to understand the metabolic potential and phenotypes of the
              members of a diverse episymbiotic bacterial community found associated with the
              tube-dwelling polychaete, Alvinella pompejana. This association exists in an
              extreme deep-sea hydrothermal vent biotope characterized by high concentrations
              of heavy metals and the steepest thermal gradient experienced by any organism
              yet described. It is likely that such an environment imposes strong selective
              pressures on the symbiont/host association. In depth rRNA analysis of the
              episymbiotic communities associated with A. Pompejana demonstrated the
              dominance of a diverse assemblage of a single bacterial subdivision (epsilon
              Proteobacteria). This constraint, found in the episymbiotic communities
              throughout A. pompejana geographic and physiochemical range, has not been
              described in any other symbiotic association. Because of the complex nature of
              this association, no specific roles have been defined for this unique symbiosis
              by habitat characterizations, in situ enzyme assays, classical cultivation
              techniques or molecular analysis. This project will address a central
              hypothesis that by understanding the collective genetic complexity of the
              episymbiont community one can resolve a core metabolic strategy that defines
              the
community in the context of its environment.  Our approach assumes that by
              placing the genome biocomplexity of this community directly into an
              environmental context we will be able to resolve the ecological role and
              interrelationships of this microbial/invertebrate association. To achieve this
              goal, we will conduct a meta-genome scale analysis of the complex microbial
              community found intimately associated with A. pompejana.  By coupling tightly
              integrated bioinformatic and modeling components with both environmental
              characterizations and microarray expression analyses we will then have the
              ability to genetically dissect the episymbiont community and query their
              functionality under various physiochemical conditions. The research will
              involve an interdisciplinary, international team of investigators that bring to
              the program expertise in microbial ecology, geochemistry, genomic sciences,
              proteomics and bioinformatics. The productive partnerships between academia and
              industry that were developed during previous work will allow access to
              essential technical resources and expertise otherwise unavailable for this type
              of investigation.

