              Nitrogen-fixing symbioses are ecologically and agronomically important and
              provide the major nitrogen input for many systems of sustainable agriculture.
              For scientific and historical reasons, the interaction between Sinorhizobium
              meliloti and a diploid alfalfa, Medicago truncatula, has become a model for
              this kind of nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. The DNA sequence of the S. meliloti
              genome has been determined and was predicted to encode about 6200 proteins. To
              investigate the genome further, an integrated genetic strategy is being
              developed that will provide a platform for many different types of genetic,
              biochemical, physiological and taxonomic analysis. The strategy uses
              high-throughput, genomic scale PCR and integrase technology to clone sequences
              that encode every predicted gene in the S. meliloti genome. These clones can be
              used immediately in creating DNA arrays for expression analysis and cross
              species comparisons and, using the clones, it should be possible to move
              smoothly to the construction of S. meliloti strains with reporter genes fused
              to each predicted promoter, to the isolation of mutant strains lacking
              precisely defined regions of the S. meliloti genome, and to the production of
              proteins for biochemical characterization. The strategy also provides built-in
              flexibility for incorporating technical advances in the future.
              Characterization of gene expression and symbiotic phenotypes of the resulting
              bacterial strains will allow investigators to investigate various bacterial
              traits important to a productive symbiosis, such as resistance to acid soils
              and heavy metals, cold tolerance, desiccation tolerance, competitiveness for
              nodulation and efficiency of nitrogen fixation. 

The information obtained by
              studying S. meliloti and its symbiosis with alfalfa will be relevant to
              understanding other symbioses and plant-microbe interactions in general.
              Resources will be developed for sharing this genetic material and information.
              Through both their immediate utility and their features designed to accommodate
              changes necessitated by future research needs, these constructs should provide
              a basis for many years of fruitful work. The strategy should be applicable to
              many other organisms important to society in areas ranging from agriculture and
              the environment to bioengineering.

