              ABSTRACT
CTS-0075712
K. Papadopoulos
Tulane University

This is an
              exploratory grant for which the hypotheses is that Capillary Video-microscopy
              can uniquely reveal key aspects of the release mechanisms of water-soluble
              drugs from double-emulsion globules and their transport into neighboring giant
              liposomes that mimic biological cells.  The goal is to elucidate the phenomena
              which govern these mechanisms and the control of which will ultimately decide
              the successful application of soluble emulsions as drug-delivery
              systems.

Ephedrine hydrochloride (EPH HCI) will be used as the model
              water-soluble drug, encapsulated in the W1 compartment of a W1/0/W2 globule,
              and the oil membrane will be paraffin oil.  Oil-soluble, nonionic surfactant
              Span-80 (sorbitan monooleate) and water-soluble, non-ionic surfactant Tween-80
              will be studied as factors of both globule stability and drug release.  The
              osmotic pressure gradients in the double-emulsion globules will be adjusted
              through NaCl.

Microcapillaries (~200 um i.d.,  10 200 um) will be fabricated
              from melting point tubes (1.1-1.2 mm i.d. x 100 mm) by pulling them in the
              middle using a Narishige PB-7 micropipette puller (see Picture 2).  Injection
              and micromanipulation pipettes with fine tip will be shaped by pulling
              microtubes (Microcapes. 0.688 mm i.d. X 78 mm) from one of their ends so as to
              produce a tip of outside diameter 10-15 um.  Micropipettes will be future
              fashioned with a microgorge (Narishige MF-9, see picture 3), thus allowing us
              to polish the end of the pipette or to bend it to a desired shape.

To
              prepare a W1/0/W2 globule, a microcapillary will be filled with pure water or a
              saline solution at first.  A micropipette filled with oil (containing
              oil-soluble surfactants) will then be inserted and will inject a large oil
              drop.  Subsequently, and internal ephedrine-hydrochloride-solution droplet will
              be formed into the oil via the same procedure as the one that produces the oil
              drop.  This globule preparation procedure will lead to an osmotic pressure
              gradient between W1 and W2 phases, which will cause the release of the
              water-soluble drug.  A single globule will be used in each experiment and the
              complete transport process in this globule will be observed microscopically. 
              In those experiments that will monitor the transfer of EPH HCI to a vessel, a
              giant vesicle will first be prepared with
              1-palmitoyl-2oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine through electroformation.

By
              using different salinities in W1 and W2  and EOPH HCI concentrations in W1 we
              will know under their conditions the water-soluble is delivered by a
              "swelling-breakdown" mechanism.  The time needed before rupture will be used as
              a measure of the drug release rate.  An obvious geometrical factor that will
              effect the time of rupture is the size of the W1 droplets.  Since smaller W1
              droplets will take longer to burst, polydisperity in such droplets should lead
              to prolonged release, and thus will be studied as a tool to control
              delivery.

Under those salinity conditions that will not produce swelling and
              breakdown, water will transport from W1 and W2 via some diffusion-facilitating
              mechanisms, such as reverse micellization, spontaneous emulsification,
              hydrated-surfactant or lamellar-facilitated transport.  We will determine the
              kinetics of such drug release as effected by various surfactant combinations
              and formulations that will favor certain mechanisms over others under different
              conditions.

To visualize the transport of the released material from the
              W1/0/W2 globule to the neighboring giant vesicle, aqueous fluorescent dye
              (N-Methylhdroxy-quinolinium iodide)  will be added to ephedrine hydrochloride
              solution.  In order to simulate possible release situations in the body, both
              contact and non-contact a configuration of a double-emulsion globule and a
              giant vesicle will be studied.  To study drug transfer under globule-vesicle
              contact, the giant vesicle will be pushed gently so as to visually touch the
              W1/0/W2 globule.

