                
   The objective of the proposed work is to investigate the use of
              ortho-quinone methides (o-QMs) as building blocks for organic synthesis.  This
              study will begin with work on ways to use o-QMs to provide access to phenols
              which have been functionalized ortho to the hydroxy group.  Ortho quinone
              methides are generated in situ and then trapped by 1,4 conjugate addition to
              directly provide functionalized phenols or trapped by 4 + 2 cycloaddition
              reactions.  Asymmetric protocols for the 1,4 conjugate addition to o-QMs will
              then be developed and the adaptation of this o-QM chemistry to solid supports
              will be studied.  The synthetic methodology developed in this project will be
              used in the syntheses of natural products, robustadial A, heliquinomycin and
              diinsininol.  In this CAREER proposal, Dr. Pettus also presents ideas for
              modifications to the undergraduate organic chemistry lecture and laboratory
              classes at UCSB.

   With this CAREER award, the Organic and Macromolecular
              Chemistry Program is supporting the research and educational plans of Dr.
              Thomas R. Pettus of the Department of Chemistry at the University of
              California-Santa Barbara.  Dr. Pettus will explore chemical reactions of
              compounds which contain a functional group (reactive site) known as an
              ortho-quinone methide (o-QM).  Ortho-quinone methides can be generated in situ
              and then used to produce a variety of aromatic compounds which have heretofore
              been difficult to make.   The synthetic methodology developed in this project
              will be used in the syntheses of natural products, robustadial A,
              heliquinomycin and diinsininol.  These natural products posess a wide range of
              biological activities.  Students trained during the course of this research
              work will gain skills needed by the pharmaceutical and speciality chemicals
              industries. In this CAREER proposal, Dr. Pettus also presents ideas for
              modifications to the undergraduate organic chemistry lecture and laboratory
              classes at UCSB.  



