              The common theme of promoting storage systems as a discipline distinct from
              databases, operating systems, and distributed systems unites the research and
              educational goals of this project.  As its own discipline, storage systems will
              attain prominence in academia commensurate with storage's importance to
              computing.  Storage limits the performance of most applications, holds
              enterprises' most valuable assets, and consumes the majority of IT dollars
              spent.  Training storage specialists to serve the IT community and creating
              software to increase the manageability and performance of storage is
              imperative.

The research component of this project addresses the inability
              of large-scale storage systems to share persistent data.  Each global-scale
              system owns data and isolates that data from unaffiliated computers.  This
              project will develop a syndication protocol that allows storage systems to
              migrate, share, and replicate data interactively.  Syndication is not an access
              protocol; it does not provide data to users and applications.  Rather,
              syndication enables storage servers and data stores to transfer and share the
              management of persistent data. 
Syndication decouples data from software
              systems, which breaks down the boundaries between access to data on a global
              scale and access to data anywhere on the globe.

The educational component of
              this project develops a curriculum to train storage systems specialists within
              an eight course Master's degree.  The sequence of courses organizes knowledge
              specific to the management of persistent data, culling it out of many other
              disciplines.   The curriculum integrates classwork with Internet-based
              educational software systems that support mobile, ad-hoc, and resource limited
              classrooms.




