              "Passive Site Remediation for Mitigation of Liquefaction Risk - From Concept to
              Technology"
The overall objective of this CAREER award is to demonstrate the
              practical feasibility of a new concept using passive remediation to mitigate
              the risk of soil liquefaction at critical facilities and lifelines; and
              concurrently to incorporate education and outreach activities that will
              increase public awareness, and especially that of female students of the
              challenges of engineering in general, and geotechnical and geoenvironmental
              engineering in particular, and to engage the students' excitement and
              creativity in solving complex engineering problems.

Passive site remediation
              is integrally related to groundwater processes, including transport of
              stabilizers through the groundwater (the inverse of contaminant transport). 
              The idea is to slowly inject a stabilizing material at the up-gradient edge of
              a site and deliver the stabilizer to the liquefiable area using the groundwater
              flow.  Extensive soil liquefaction occurred in the 1995 Kobe earthquake,
              especially at the Kobe Port.  The cost of repair has been estimated to be more
              than $11 billion, and the port operations were essentially halted for months. 
              Of particular concern are developed sites where traditional ground improvement
              methods are difficult or impossible to implement.

The aim of the project is
              to demonstrate the practical viability of passive site remediation by
              conducting laboratory and pilot-scale experiments; developing implementation
              technology for its deployment; investigating verification tools to assess the
              improvement achieved; modifying a numerical modeling code for use with gelling
              fluids; and upon successful completion, producing a design manual for practical
              application.  The practical feasibility is being investigated using column and
              pilot-scale experiments.  The column experiments are done to determine the
              optimal geochemical and physical conditions where passive site remediation
              could be employed.  A cross-disciplinary pilot-scale research facility will be
              constructed at Drexel University for 3-dimensional modeling of passive site
              remediation techniques.  It will be used to develop optimal methods for
              stabilizer delivery, and evaluate verification tools for assessing the
              improvement achieved.  The contaminant transport code RT3D will be modified to
              account for variable-density, variable-viscosity gelling fluids, and
              subsequently used for numerical modeling.  The code will be calibrated using
              the data from the column and pilot-scale experiments, and used to conduct
              predictive modeling, and eventually be used to develop design and analysis
              procedures.  The ultimate goal of the outreach and education is to promote
              creativity and inspire imagination among several groups: undergraduate
              engineering students, the Drexel student chapter of the Society of Women
              Engineers (SWE), and elementary school girls from the Philadelphia
              area.

Passive site remediation techniques could have broad application for
              developed sites susceptible to soil liquefaction, and to many environmental
              remediation problems.

