              Research world-wide on biosensing is motivated by numerous applications in
              environmental and food testing and clinical diagnostics, for example.  However,
              the important problem of detecting in parallel a large number of molecular
              species from the very small samples typical of most collection procedures
              remains an elusive goal. This CAREER research plan focuses on solving this
              problem by merging the science of nanophotonics with waveguide biosensors and
              microfluidics for the development of a new class of molecular detection
              array.

The immobilization of metallic nanoparticles onto discrete zones of
              an optical waveguide surface makes the parallel detection of a large number of
              molecular species feasible.  In each zone, capture molecules tethered to the
              nanoparticles preferentially bind to a particular molecular species through an
              affinity interaction.  Strong localization of light about each nanoparticle
              allows for dramatic improvement in optical signal transduction, thereby
              facilitating the detection of small numbers of molecules bound within each
              zone.
Microfluidics will be used to deliver small sample volumes to each
              sensing zone and passive mixing structures will be studied in order to increase
              the molecular binding probability within each zone.

The education plan
              focuses on the creation of a summer optics workshop for secondary school
              physics and science teachers.  As more demands are placed on teachers, and as
              technology continues to advance at a rapid pace, teachers need a way in which
              to further their knowledge of science and hands-on teaching methods.  Detailed
              lesson plans and laboratory exercises will be developed for deployment in the
              classroom, with the goal of improving student understanding of and instruction
              in optics and the sciences, and encouraging students to pursue careers in
              engineering and science.  Participation of teachers from Hispanic and Native
              American schools will be strongly encouraged.

