              This project is focused on the synthesis and structural characterization of
              intermetallic heavy fermion superconductors. It is our goal to correlate
              magnetic properties with rare earth cations, main group, transition metals, and
              crystal chemical relationships. Through cooperative efforts between Louisiana
              State University (LSU), Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), the National
              Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and Oak Ridge National Laboratory
              (ORNL), high quality samples will be produced and characterized, and detailed
              magnetic and transport measurements will be made.  The training of
              undergraduate and graduate students will emphasize carrying out investigations
              ranging from basic sample preparation all the way through to measurement
              techniques and data interpretation. A community education outreach program will
              involve high-school science teachers working in the PI's lab during the summer.
               This will allow these teachers to experience  research and the scientific
              method in action making a very positive impact on local physical science
              education. In addition, LSU students will perform  chemistry demonstrations in
              K-12 school classrooms.

This proposal is aimed at the exploration of the
              rewarding boundary between crystallography and the systematic study of
              structure-dependent properties such as superconductivity and magnetism in rare
              earth intermetallics.  With the combination of synthesis, characterization, and
              measurements of properties of new materials, this research will create a basic
              understanding of the interplay of superconductivity and magnetism allowing the
              tailored design of new materials useful for information technology.  Students
              will measure magnetic and electronic/ transport properties of polycrystalline
              and single crystal materials at Louisiana State University (LSU) gaining a
              broader and more diverse scientific background as they collaborate within the
              LSU scientific community and national laboratories. LSU students will also
              perform chemistry demonstrations in East Baton Rouge K-12 schools.  In
              addition, a high school teacher will perform research in the group and return
              to the classroom during the academic year with new scientific perspectives, as
              related to new materials for information technology.

