              The objective of this CAREER project is a comprehensive education and research
              program aimed at the development of next-generation devices using functional
              perovskites by providing atomic-level understanding of interface properties
              relevant for practical applications. Materials science research will be pursued
              research toward: (a) mixed ionic-electronic conducting (MIEC) perovskite oxides
              for electrochemical devices, and (b) ferroelectric thin films for capacitors
              and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). In these devices, interface
              structure and properties play a key role in determining materials and device
              properties. Providing a fundamental understanding of transport mechanisms
              across interfaces will enable more energy-efficient, cost-effective devices,
              and aid the design of thin film electrochemical devices. Ferroelectric
              perovskites have a host of properties that enable further development of
              technologies such as microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). The physical
              properties of ferroelectric perovskite thin films are drastically different
              from those of bulk materials, for reasons that are currently poorly understood.
              Establishing the role of interfaces in observed behavior is expected to allow
              development of optimized microstructures for applications in MEMS and
              electronic devices. The method developed in this project will concentrate on
              interfaces with known atomic arrangements and defect chemistry. These will be
              obtained by controlled thin film growth experiments and by utilizing unique
              capabilities of high-resolution transmission electron microscopy in combination
              with electron energy-loss spectroscopy. Macroscopic measurements of transport
              properties of oxide interfaces and of the physical behavior of ferroelectric
              thin films is being studied to establish fundamental limits of interfacial
              properties, relevant for all applications of functional perovskites.  In
              addition, this research is intended to set the stage for atomic level
              calculations that will need the true atomic structure as input. Part of the
              research on thin film electrochemical devices will involve an established
              collaboration with industry, as well as interdisciplinary research with
              national and international university researchers in the areas of
              electrochemical transport and electrical characterization. 
An important
              feature of the project is the training of students in interdisciplinary,
              industrial and international collaborative activities, in technologically
              important research areas. A main goal of the project is to thoroughly integrate
              research into educational activities. Emphasis will be placed on (a)
              participation of undergraduate students in research early in their studies (b)
              interdisciplinary and international training, and (c) mentoring of students of
              underrepresented groups with the goal to encourage them to pursue graduate
              studies in materials science and engineering. Course development plans include
              strengthening the core curriculum to emphasize conceptual understanding of the
              course material for a broad interdisciplinary audience, and to incorporate new
              technologies. Conceptual testing as a method to evaluate the success of the
              educational activities will also be developed.
%%% The project addresses
              fundamental research issues in a topical area of materials science having high
              technological relevance. The scope of the project will expose students to
              challenges in materials synthesis, processing, and characterization. An
              important feature of the project is the strong emphasis on education, and the
              integration of research and education. 
***  

