              	Heterosis, or hybrid vigor, is a condition where more heterozygous individuals
              physiologically outperform more homozygous individuals.  Although heterosis has
              often been reported for marine bivalves, as well as other taxa, the
              physiological and genetic bases of heterosis are still poorly understood.  The
              proposed research will use a combination of quantitative and molecular genetic
              approaches to examine the physiological and genetic underpinnings of heterosis
              in the dwarf surf clam, Mulinia lateralis.  The specific goals of this work are
              1) to determine the genetic and physiological basis of growth rate variation,
              2) to estimate the degree to which the physiological components of growth are
              genetically correlated, 3) to determine whether levels of heterozygosity are
              significantly associated with physiological performance  under both stressful
              and non-stressful conditions, and 4) to determine the importance of inbreeding
              to any association between heterozygosity and physiological performance in M.
              lateralis.  Three separate educational activities will be integrated with these
              research goals.  First, M. lateralis will be used as a teaching model for a
              laboratory section to accompany the graduate level course in quantitative
              genetics currently taught at the University of Maine. Second, an internship
              will be established that will enable high school teachers and students to
              directly participate in the proposed research and gain hands-on training in
              molecular biology, bivalve husbandry, and quantitative genetics.  Third, a
              summer content institute in genetics for secondary science teachers will be
              developed.  This institute is intended to help teachers keep pace with the
              rapid advances in genetic research and effectively communicate these advances
              to their students.  Along with the summer genetics institute, a series of pilot
              projects will be established in local schools exploring the most effective way
              to use M. lateralis as a model for demonstrating bivalve physiology, ecology,
              and genetics in a manner consistent with state and national standards.
