              This CAREER award supports theoretical research to elucidate the role of
              microstructure in determining the properties of interfacial materials and
              supports education activities that involve introducing various materials
              modeling components to the materials science and engineering curriculum,
              development of multimedia and visual teaching tools, and outreach to K-12
              educational activities. Research will focus on mechanical properties of brittle
              interfacial materials through the study of diamond interfaces and
              nanocrystalline diamond model systems. Studies of mechanical properties of
              interfacial brittle materials will focus on analyzing the role of
              microstructure and environmental effects in brittle fracture with particular
              emphasis on relating atomistic simulations to the large body of knowledge on
              fracture mechanics. Its purely brittle nature and its potential for various
              applications such those needed for developing micro- and nano-electromechanical
              systems motivate the choice of nanocrystalline diamond, a model brittle
              material. The PI will use atomistic simulations to address the questions: (i)
              Is brittle crack propagation governed mainly by equilibrium thermodynamics or
              is it dominated by kinetics? (ii) What are the effects of microstructure on
              crack propagation, deflection and arrest? (iii) What are effects of temperature
              and environment on fracture?  In order to explore a wide range of
              microstructures and provide a highly reliable description of carbon-hydrogen
              systems, atomistic simulations will be combined with tight-binding simulations.
              Simulation results will be compared with those from continuum finite element
              modeling approaches to the mechanics of interfacial materials. Educational
              activities will focus on developing courses on materials theory and modeling,
              and on restructuring lecture-based coursework into an interactive format at
              both the undergraduate and graduate levels. A key aspect of educational
              activities will be to expose students to the complementary nature of modeling
              and experiment by developing coursework in collaboration with experimentalists.
              A variety of multimedia tools and web resources will be integrated into
              teaching to assist in achieving this objective. Cross-university web-assisted
              teaching will be explored in order to broaden the repertoire of the engineering
              curriculum. Platform independent, open source and interactive software for
              visualization of molecular and other physical processes will also be developed.
              This courseware and educational software will ultimately be shared with the
              materials science community. The educational component also includes an
              outreach program to expose K-12 students to materials science and materials
              science career options.

This CAREER award supports theoretical research and
              education. The proposed research focuses on using simulation to elucidate the
              role of the microsctructure of materials in determining their mechanical
              properties. A simulation approach that couples two different simulation methods
              that are accurate on different length scales will be used to provide an
              atomistic description of brittle fracture in brittle interfacial materials
              through the study of diamond interfaces and nanocrystalline diamond model
              systems. The educational component of the proposal involves introducing
              materials modeling and simulation into the materials science and engineering
              curriculum through course development and restructuring, and involves
              developing new simulation and visualization software tools for teaching which
              will be shared with the materials science community.  The educational component
              also includes an outreach program to expose K-12 students to materials science
              and materials science career options.



















