              Thermal barrier coatings of plasma-sprayed 7 wt.% Y2O3-ZrO2 (YSZ) are to be
              extensively studied at representative use temperatures (800 degrees C-1400
              degrees C) using a modified compression test for stand-alone coatings. For the
              test, the YSZ coating is removed from the substrate to isolate its behavior,
              and creep testing, stress relaxation, and fast fracture experiments will be
              performed. In addition to mechanical testing, we will use the following
              characterization methods for the proposed work: dilatometry, transmission
              electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, Raman Spectroscopy, and laser flash (to
              measure thermal conductivity). Each method listed will provide the necessary
              information to interpret the mechanical testing results. Thus, the principal
              output of this research will be structure-property relationships of
              plasma-sprayed YSZ in simulated operating environments. This will involve
              establishing deformation mechanisms as a function of temperature, stress, time,
              and sample microstructure (i.e. porosity and lamella size). This program will
              also establish a foundation for a lifetime of educational excellence through
              curriculum development, outreach, and mentoring. To increase non-majors
              participation in materials classes at Purdue, web-based modules will be
              designed that directly relate materials science applications to each of the
              engineering majors, and then incorporated into the introductory materials
              course. Beyond the activities at Purdue, an outreach program for science
              students at Jefferson High School (JHS) in Lafayette, Indiana will be
              established. In this program, high school juniors will spend 8 weeks of the
              summer with our research group, then continue their research in the fall and
              spring of their senior year through an established research based science class
              at JHS. There will also be a significant undergraduate mentoring component in
              the proposed work through support of a Purdue MSE undergraduate student every
              fall and spring semester of the program, as well as a Research Experience for
              Undergraduates (REU) student every summer.

Virtually every commercial and
              military aircraft flying today uses thermal barrier coatings (TBCs) to protect
              the metallic structure of its gas turbine engine(s) from temperature extremes
              and/or to allow the engine to be operated at higher, more efficient
              temperatures. In addition to the transportation sector, the energy sector also
              relies on the efficiency boosts TBCs provide industrial gas turbines (IGTs) as
              they produce electricity. While the benefits of TBCs result in significant cost
              savings in these and other sectors, there are still many aspects of TBCs we
              don't understand. For example, they often shrink, crack and even detach from
              the underlying metallic structure during elevated temperature service. Thus,
              basic research into their high temperature mechanical properties will allow us
              to fully utilize the benefits of using these coatings. At its most fundamental
              level, then, this proposal focuses on determining the material properties that
              govern how well TBCs "work" while they are in service and will serve as a basis
              for designing next-generation TBCs. 

