                   The end-to-end argument is a fundamental principle of the Internet
              architecture. The commercialization
of the Internet, however, has brought new
              requirements like trust, QoS, ISP differentiation, third party
involvement and
              less sophisticated users. These requirements have prompted the rethinking of
              the end-to-end
principle in a quest for a new Internet architecture. Past
              experience indicates that the development of a
new architecture will likely be
              a long process, rich with debate and will draw from a vast and often
              uncharted
solution space.
     This research will investigate part of the
              solution space, namely the viability and suitability of Network
Assisted
              Services as a possible component of the future Internet architecture. A
              network-assistance archi-tecture called Network Samaritans (NetSam) is defined
              to map the framework for such services. NetSam is motivated by the observation
              that many new requirements seemingly require new mechanisms in the net-work. 
              Unlike Active Networks, NetSam is a moderate, yet careful step towards an
              enhanced network that provides a set of services beyond basic forwarding, but
              spiritually very distant from the malleable network of AN. NetSam preserves the
              architectural spirit of the Internet by seeking to determine the minimum
              func-tionality that is both necessary and appropriate in the network. NetSam is
              not an Internet architecture, but merely a framework for new services pivoting
              on network assistance, which may become part of the future
              architecture.
Approach
     The study will be carried out in the context of
              three important applications: Reliable Multicast, Distributed Denial of
              Service, and Network Management. The investigation will follow a disciplined,
              minimalist approach, assuming that a service is not needed unless proven
              otherwise. Selected services will be decom-posed and their components
              distributed between the network and the application. Network components willbe
              simple and general so they can be easily implemented in the routers with
              minimal security risks.
     The NetSam architecture defines a new
              architectural division of services, namely filter and surrogate
services.
              Filter services are very simple and typically implemented in the routers, while
              surrogate services
are more complex and typically implemented at the edges
              (but use some help from forwarding filters).
Together, filters and surrogates
              provide flexibility and support a large spectrum of services.
     The study
              will follow a top-down approach by isolating the applications of network
              assistance. Simple
and general services will be defined, with candidates
              including packet marking, steering and sampling and
then appropriate filters
              will be designed. The resulting system will be evaluated through implementation
              and
simulation.
Impact on Advancing Knowledge
     This research proposes a
              new paradigm for application/network interaction. Unlike current
              paradigms
that follow either complete separation or union of the two, this
              research proposes informed interaction
between the network and application.
              The major contribution of this research to science will be the architecturethat
              governs this interaction.
Impact on Education
    This research will expose
              students to both theoretical and practical issues on application/network
              interaction. Students will be challenged to think deeper about the distinction
              between the application and the network, with emphasis on understanding
              concepts like the end-to-end argument and active networking.
Students will
              learn to analyze application requirements and consider the merits and demerits
              of router-assisted services. Students will learn how to define a new
              architecture. Project work will task students with the definition of new
              services and the decomposition and implementation of their constituent
              primitives.
