              0093969
Livesay
This CAREER project is to establish a productive, integrated
              research and educational program with a focus on the multi-scale mechanics of
              soft tissues. One promising approach for the analysis of materials possessing
              microstructure is homogenization, involving the analysis of a repeating
              microstructural unit coupled to a macroscopic level analysis. However, the
              applicability of this strategy to biologic soft tissues is currently limited,
              since it has thus far been restricted to linear elastic media. Further research
              and development are needed to extend the homogenization approach for
              anisotropic and non-homogeneous media. This project will develop a research and
              educational program on the multi-scale mechanics of soft tissues, through the
              following specific objectives:

1. Implement and optimize a homogenization
              approach for computational analysis of multi-scale mechanics under finite
              deformation. 
2. Perform experimental validation of the homogenization
              approach using synthetic tissues created with known microstructure.  
3.
              Extend the homogenization approach for the analysis of synthetic tissues
              possessing both directional and spatial variation in material properties. 
4.
              Determine the multi-scale mechanical environment within biological soft tissue
              under simple loading. 
5. Integrate active learning experiences into existing
              undergraduate and new graduate Biomedical Engineering courses. 

The
              fundamental research will develop critically important tools for the analysis
              of the multi-scale mechanics of biological soft tissues. The complementary
              educational improvements will increase student learning/retention and encourage
              further study of multi-scale mechanics, thus enhancing the quality of
              biomechanics education and research. 

