              The objective of the research supported by this CAREER award is to investigate
              the character of ligand binding sites on proteins using the novel multiple
              solvent crystal structures method. The idea is to solve the crystal structures
              of different proteins in a variety of organic solvents in order to map their
              binding surfaces. The study will focus on five representative proteins that
              interact with different types of ligands. The premise is that the solvent
              molecules have characteristics in common with component parts of larger ligands
              and bind primarily in areas that evolved as binding sites. At the same time,
              changes in the properties of the bulk solvent relative to an aqueous solution
              provide changes to the protein environment. Analysis of the protein crystal
              structures in these multiple environments can be used to delineate structural
              components that are able to adjust to the change. Are there common patterns of
              hydration, plasticity and hydrophobic exposed surfaces that are independent of
              vast differences in shape, dynamics, electrostatic and hydrophobic content of
              the binding sites? To what extent does the type of ligand determine the surface
              properties of proteins, and how do dynamics affect the binding site features?
              Answers to these questions are critical to our basic understanding of
              protein-protein and protein-ligand interactions and will ultimately help to
              bridge the gap between what we observe experimentally and what we can predict
              from first principles.

Broader impact: Model building and refinement of the
              crystal structures will be integrated into an undergraduate course on protein
              structure and function and into a graduate course on macromolecular modeling.
              The students taking these courses will work closely with the research team to
              complete the refinement of the structures. Thus, the scientific objectives of
              this project will be accomplished within an educational framework designed to
              enhance the knowledge and research experience of individuals from several
              stages of the academic ladder. This project aims to 1) decrease the gap between
              teaching and research experiences of the students, 2) expose a large number of
              students to the questions guiding cutting edge research while offering students
              an illustration of the concepts discussed in class, 3) spark an interest in
              undergraduates, particularly women and Latino students, that might never have
              had the motivation to inquire about research outside of the classroom and 4)
              develop a process by which post-docs and graduate students are motivated to be
              excellent teachers.

