              Cell walls are carbohydrate and protein structures that surround and separate
              plant cells.
As plant cells expand in a regulated fashion they must
              necessarily modify and enlarge
their cell walls to permit the subsequent
              increase in volume. The cell wall itself might
influence this expansion
              process. Thus the cell has the potential to influence almost every
aspect of
              plant function simply because of its position and physical properties. For
              this
reason many have speculated on its role in a plant's development and
              response to the
outside world. Cell growth can occur in many dimensions, such
              as the polarized
expansion of a pollen tube tip, the creation of elongated
              cells characteristic of many
vegetative tissues, the establishment of a
              meristem, or even the jigsaw-like arrangement
of cells at the leaf surface.
              Currently the understanding of how cell wall architecture is
coordinated with
              programmed and hormone regulated cell expansion events during
development is
              not well understood in angiosperms.
Recent studies have identified a number of
              proteins at the cell surface that could
directly regulate cell wall functions,
              and the Cell Wall Associated Kinases, or WAKs, are
among these. There are five
              cell wall associated kinases in Arabidopsis and
representatives in other
              angiosperm families. WAKs each have a cytoplasmic
serine/threonine protein
              kinase domain, span the plasma membrane and extend a domain
into the cell
              wall. WAKs physically link the plasma membrane to the carbohydrate matrix
and
              are unique in that they have the potential to directly signal cellular events
              through
their kinase domain.
The WAK extracellular domain is variable between
              the five isoforms, and collectively
the family is expressed in all organs.
              WAK1 and WAK2 are the most ubiquitously and
abundantly expressed of the five
              tandemly arrayed genes, and their messages are present
in vegetative
              meristems, junctions of organ types, and areas of cell expansion. They
              are
also induced by pathogen infection and wounding. The WAK1 but not WAK2
              cell wall
domain binds to a glycine rich protein (GRP) of the cell wall in in
              vitro assays. WAK1
and GRP can be co-immunoprecipitated from leaf or seedling
              extracts, and this WAK is
phosphorylated. Recent experiments demonstrate that
              antisense WAK expression leads
to the loss of cell expansion, and preliminary
              results indicate that antisense GRP
production causes an enhancement of cell
              expansion (and eventual cell death). Thus GRP
may be a negative regulator of
              WAK activity. A large amount of WAK is also covalently
linked to pectin, and
              most of WAK that is bound to pectin is also phosphorylated. The
data support a
              model where WAK1 is bound to GRP as a phosphorylated kinase, and also
binds to
              pectin. How WAKs are involved in signaling from the pectin extracellular
              matrix
in coordination with GRPs will be key to the understanding of the cell
              wall's role in cell
growth.
WAKs are poised to provide a direct signal from
              the cell wall to the cytoplasm of many
cell types during the development of
              Arabidopsis. In order to characterize the
associations and roles of GRPs and
              WAKs in plants it will be necessary to generate
additional (partial) loss of
              function alleles of the two predominant WAKs and of GRP.
These alleles can
              then be used to determine the relationship of WAK mediated cell
expansion to
              other known signaling pathways. WAK kinase substrates will be also
identified
              and used to assay the activation of WAK by wall components and
developmental
              cues, and eventually mutant alleles of these substrates will help in
              the
analysis of WAKs and cell elongation. The goal is to understand how WAKs
              in
association with GRP and pectins regulate cytoplasmic components so that
              the cell wall
is coordinated with processes of cell growth.

