              EIA-0224417
Aravind K. Joshi
Mark Liberman
University of Pennsylvania

CISE
              RR: Discourse Penn Trebank and Multimodal FORM: Development of Two Richly
              Annotated Corpora

This project, providing critical resources for research
              discourse modeling and conversational interaction, aims at developing new
              technologies and systems for information retrieval and human computer
              interaction.  Centering on the construction of annotated corpora, two
              large-scale resources, one in the discourse domain and one in the dialog domain
              will be built:

1.	Discourse Penn Treebank (DPTB) and
2.	MultiFORM:
              Augmenting the FORM corpus with body movements, speech, and intonation.

The
              former project develops a large scale and reliably annotated corpus that will
              encode coherence relations associated with discourse connectives, including
              their argument structure and anaphoric links, thus exposing a clearly defined
              level of discourse structure and supporting the extraction of a range of
              inferences associated with discourse connectives.  This annotation will be "on
              top of" the Penn Treebank (PTB) annotations as well as the predicate-argument
              annotations of PTB (called the Proposition Bank or Prop Bank).  The latter
              involves a corpus of gesture-annotated videos, FORM that was designed to be
              extensible in order to eventually represent the entire multimodal experience of
              conversational interaction.  This multimodal FORM , MultiFORM, will be created
              by adding body movement, speech and syntactic structure, and intonation. 
              Large-scale annotated corpora have played a critical role in speech and natural
              language research by enabling large-scale integration of statistical knowledge
              (derived from the corpora) with linguistic knowledge (as represented in
              annotations) leading to scientific and technological advances.  Representative
              examples constitute robust parsing and automatic extraction of relations and
              coreferences and their applications to information extraction, question
              answering, summarization, and machine translation.  PTB, a resource developed a
              decade ago, represents an example of such a resource that impacts natural
              language processing worldwide.  PTB deals with corpora at the sentence level
              warranting a new large scale and reliable discourse and dialog structure
              annotated corpora.  Although intellectual and practical connections exist
              between studies of the structures of discourse and dialog, the initial
              requirements for resources to study these areas diverge while overlapping in
              conception.  On the discourse side, we need for corpora that deals with the
              kinds of structures found in composed text such as journalistic articles.  The
              dialog side needs to focus on interactions among people and on extemporized
              rather than pre-composed material.

