              EIA 0224369
Pandey, Raju
Aksoy, Demet; Devanbu, Premkimar T.; Olsson, Ronald
              A.
University of California - Davis 

CISE RR: Infrastructure for Research
              in Parallel and Distributed Computing 

This proposal, supporting parallel
              computing, distributed systems, ubiquitous (autonomous) systems, and satellite
              communication, aims at establishing a parallel and distributed computing
              laboratory within the center for software systems. The lab will include four
              clusters, each connected through high speed network. The parallel computing
              cluster will host several multiprocessor systems; the distributed system
              cluster will include workstations and PCs, the ubiquitous systems cluster will
              connect embedded devices (including handheld device sensors); and the satellite
              cluster will host equipment for initiating the downlink communication for
              disseminating the data. The sensor network will primarily be connected through
              an ad hoc wireless network that will be routed to the main high-speed backbone.
              The infrastructure will meet the needs of four research projects
              in
1.	Distributed Systems,
2.	Parallel Computing,
3.	Distributed Systems
              Software Engineering, and
4.	Wide Area Data Dissemination.
The distributed
              systems cluster will enable the distributed systems group to develop highly
              efficient, scalable, robust, and secure distributed systems that adapt to
              changes underlying systems conditions. Further, the ubiquitous systems cluster
              will permit the group to develop new application-specific routing algorithms,
              novel programming models customizable middleware that seamlessly integrate
              sensor-based systems and scalable resource allocation, and conservation
              algorithms for large sensor-based systems. The satellite communication cluster,
              along with the distributed systems cluster, will enable the distributed data
              dissemination group to develop highly scalable, robust, and secure
              data-dissemination techniques with adaptable quality of service. The concurrent
              programming group will use the parallel computing cluster to evaluate their
              work on both concurrent programming languages and efficient runtime systems for
              parallel systems. On the educational side, the infrastructure will be used as
              experimental test-beds in several courses and will form the basis for providing
              research students with development and analysis skills in parallel and
              distributed systems.

