              Frazzoli - Branicky Abstract

This project is aimed at the development of new
              tools and techniques for the design and analysis of high-confidence software
              for complex, distributed, reconfigurable aerospace embedded systems, and to
              transfer these methods to undergraduate and graduate students, other
              researchers, and industry. 
Problems of direct interest include those arising
              in the control and coordination of multiple autonomous air and space vehicles,
              and in the detection and resolution of conflicts in Air Traffic Control. The
              techniques developed in this project are also applicable to other systems which
              require similar levels of reliability and performance, such as highway traffic
              automation systems, health care systems, power networks, and
financial
              services.

The primary goal of this project is a better understanding of the
              interactions between real-time software and dynamical systems.  This will lead
              to new and powerful tools and techniques for the design and analysis of
              embedded systems, as well as an improved approach to the requirement
              specification for real-time systems.
The core of the research is aimed at
              dramatically reducing the complexity of embedded and hybrid systems design and
              verification by exploiting the geometric structure of the underlying physical
              system in the modelling effort, and by preserving this structure in the design
              of control laws and algorithms. This will make feasible the analysis of the
              complete system (including its physical and software components) by otherwise
              poorly scalable techniques such as abstract interpretation and model checking,
              and will provide
the means for the effective use of techniques based on
              compositional reasoning.  For example, group symmetries in vehicle dynamics
              give rise to families of equivalent controlled trajectories: such sets are
              called motion primitives for single vehicles, and motion coordination
              primitives for groups of vehicles. A maneuver automaton is a collection of a
              finite number of motion primitives. It provides a discrete model of the vehicle
              dynamics, which leads to a dramatic reduction of the complexity of describing
              and controlling the vehicle behavior, by providing a high level of abstraction,
              and at the same time providing invariants which ensure that the physical state
              remains within some known bounds.

The educational part of the project is
              implemented through new course and curriculum development, and student
              mentoring. The main educational objective is to provide both undergraduate and
              graduate students with the knowledge and the skills to understand the key
              issues and to ensure technical leadership in the current and future aerospace
              information technology arenas.  Finally, an interactive web site is being
              developed, where it is possible to access information and software developed in
              the research project and for the courses.
