              Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen to temperate forests has increased in recent
              decades as a result of increased combustion of fossil fuels.  Knowing how
              nitrogen in air pollution is retained within forests will improve the ability
              of scientists to anticipate interactions among efforts to mitigate human
              alterations of regional and global cycles of carbon and nitrogen.  For example,
              the way that forests retain nitrogen affects the ability of forests to help
              mitigate expected global warming due to increased carbon gases in the
              atmosphere.  Because nitrogen often limits rates of plant growth, increased
              nitrogen inputs could affect forest growth and health.  Most of the additional
              nitrogen deposited onto the forest from air pollution is retained in the soil
              rather than being taken up by plants.  The biological and chemical processes
              whereby this incoming nitrogen, dominantly in the form of nitrate, is converted
              to organically-bound forms that stay in the soil remains unknown.  Recent
              evidence suggests that abiotic reactions (chemical reactions without
              participation of living organisms) convert nitrate into organic nitrogen in
              soil.  This suggestion challenges a widely held view that microorganisms living
              in the soils are the dominant agents for nitrogen uptake in soil.  This abiotic
              reaction of nitrate is particularly perplexing because the energetics of
              nitrate reduction in soils are not favorable under normal conditions of
              well-drained soils.  The fate of the organically bound nitrogen once it gets
              into the soils is also largely unknown.  For example, it is not known how much
              organic nitrogen is eventually converted back into an inorganic form that
              plants can use. 

The proposed studies will be among the first to investigate
              the fate of dissolved organic nitrogen, which is increasingly recognized as
              central to the nitrogen cycle of many forests.  The experiments use two ongoing
              nitrogen addition experiments in the Harvard Forest of central Massachusetts
              and the Howland Forest of central Maine. The first objective is to measure
              reactions of nitrate in these forest soils that have received nitrogen
              additions experimentally.  The PI's seek to determine whether nitrogen addition
              has changed the capacity of soils to react with nitrate, either biotically or
              abiotically.  The PI's also present in this proposal the "ferrous wheel
              hypothesis," that reduced forms of iron in tiny pockets of poorly aerated soil
              can reduce nitrate to another form of nitrogen, nitrite, which can then react
              with dissolved organic carbon in the soils to form dissolved organic nitrogen. 
              The second objective is to test this hypothesis in several laboratory
              experiments, where the concentrations and combinations of hypothesized
              reactants are varied systematically in a laboratory instrument, called a
              "redox-pH-stat reactor," which controls the acidity and aeration of the soil
              sample during the incubation.  As a result of its interdisciplinary nature, the
              research requires the collaborative efforts of an ecologist (Davidson), a
              chemist (Chorover) and a microbiologist (Dail), all of whom specialize in the
              study of soils.  

