              Investigators at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and the Woods Hole
              Oceanographic Institution will collaborate on a project to tackle a major
              paradigm in marine ecology: the coupling between a pelagically-derived food
              supply and the dynamics of deep-sea benthic communities.  This coupling has
              been difficult to establish without appropriate long time-series measurements,
              which in turn have been limited by data storage capacity, longevity of battery
              power to operate instrumentation, the inability to collect/analyze data and
              alter sampling frequencies in real time, and the inability to correct or
              compensate for malfunctions in real time.  The PIs will establish a long-term
              seafloor observing site by tapping into the Hawaii-2 Observatory (H20) at 5000
              m depth in the central North Pacific.  H2O is a prototype seafloor observing
              system that has made long-term monitoring possible in the deep sea, by
              providing electrical power from shore with real-time data acquisition and
              control via an underwater telephone cable. By plugging a suite of sensors into
              H2O, the PIs will study the short and long-term importance of a
              temporally-varying food supply on an abyssal benthic community.  The following
              questions will be afddressed: 1) What is the quality and quantity of sinking
              particulate matter reaching the sea floor at the H20 site as representative of
              the North Pacific central gyre? 2) What responses are elicited in the
              epibenthic megafauna, as a proxy for benthic community activity, by the quality
              and quantity of particulate matter arriving on the sea floor on time scales
              from hours to years?  A monitoring system will be attached consisting of a
              sedimentation sensor and digital time-lapse cameras, to monitor the flux of
              particulate matter as well as the activity of epibenthic megafauna in two 20m2
              areas of the sea floor at the H20 site in real-time. Temporal changes in
              particle flux to the sea floor will be compared with the abundance and activity
              of the mobile epibenthic megafauna in the replicate photographic areas. A
              one-year test with real-time data acquisition and analyses combined with the
              ability to alter sampling frequencies from shore will provide the first
              long-term ecological monitoring of the abyssal sea floor to resolve the
              importance of food limitation on deep-sea benthic communities.


