              This collaborative project examines the impact of judicial review on
              distributive choices by legislatures. More specifically, it examines the
              ability of a judiciary composed solely of narrowly partisan judges to protect
              minority interests in the legislative process. The project is expected to show
              that, contrary to conventional wisdom, judicial review can still work well to
              protect minority interests even when judges are narrowly partisan. The
              principal investigators' research strategy begins by assuming a "worst-case"
              context for judicial review. First, the investigators assume that judges seek
              singularly to advance the narrow interests of the respective group, or
              "faction," to which they belong. Secondly, the behavior of legislators and
              judges is considered in the context most likely to invite nakedly partisan
              outcomes - the purely distributive context of a constant-sum game in which
              resources allocated to one faction are necessarily taken away from the other
              factions. To study the impact of judicial review on distributive outcomes, the
              principal investigators develop an infinite-horizon game of
              judicial-legislative interaction in which a legislature distributes a given sum
              of revenue across legislative factions, subject to judicial review. The
              investigators extend the extant model of legislative bargaining by adding a
              judicial review stage in which a judge, who belongs to one of the factions and
              seeks only its interests, reviews allocations enacted by the legislature. With
              the baseline provided by the extant model, differences in legislative outcomes
              between the models can be attributed directly to the impact of judicial review
              on legislative behavior. The investigators expect that the model will show,
              even under these "worst-case" conditions, that judicial review still "works" in
              two important ways. First, they expect to show that distributive legislation is
              more equitably distributed in a system with judicial review than without it,
              even when judges are narrowly partisan. Secondly, they expect to show in the
              remaining cases - when the legislative allocation excludes some minority groups
              from receiving a share - that judicial review reduces the amount of the
              inequitable legislation that is actually implemented. The expected significance
              of the proposed project is threefold. First, the results of the project will
              have implications for the on-going international interest in constitutional
              design, specifically regarding the inclusion of judicial review in
              constitutional systems. Secondly, the project will have implications for
              evaluating judicial selection procedures in American states. Finally, the model
              is expected to generate hypotheses capable of being empirically tested in
              subsequent work. 
