              P.I. Gargett, Ann (Old Dominion University)	Proposal #: 0220504
Collaborating
              Inst: Woolsey, Craig (VA Tech.)	Proposal #: 0220745

 The PIs propose to
              construct a two-body towing system to create a stable measurement platform for
              ocean turbulence measurements. This work builds on the potential for an
              effective turbulence survey tool using acoustic Doppler current measurements in
              non-standard ways. In particular, horizontally moving a 5-beam VADCP through
              the ocean can produce vertical-plane "swath-maps" of crucial turbulence
              quantities such as vertical momentum stresses, turbulent kinetic energy, and
              its dissipation rate, as well as standard measurements of mean currents and
              their vertical shear. These measurements require a sufficiently stable
              platform, as proposed here. Preliminary offshore measurements taken from a
              prototype towing system suggest that a two-stage design can provide the
              required stability. This preliminary testing also clarified the design
              modifications needed for continuous mapping in offshore environments: provision
              of shipboard controls for (i) the length of cable between primary and secondary
              tow bodies and (ii) mean attitude of the secondary tow body. Specifically, the
              PIs propose to design the necessary control systems, build a complete towing
              system for operation to depths of 200m, and carry out a coastal offshore test
              cruise to document the motion characteristics of the system and collect
              preliminary data with a 1.2MHz 5-beam VADCP, deployed in both upward and
              downward looking modes. During the course of this work with a shallow system,
              they will also explore options for accomplishing cable length adjustments in a
              subsequent system to operate over full ocean depths. If successful, this
              development would have broad impacts on upper ocean observational capabilities
              in areas other than turbulence research, enabling spatial mapping of such
              features as biological thin layers and the near-surface bubble clouds that
              dominate gas transfer between ocean and atmosphere.


