              Heat-shock proteins (Hsps) are types of general stress proteins produced by
              virtually all organisms in response to most environmental and biological
              stresses, and are thought to protect cells from damage during stress or
              facilitate recovery.  The importance of variation in the cellular quantity or
              biochemical efficiency of Hsps is unknown, particularly for plants and for the
              category of Hsps referred to as the low-molecular-weight or "small" Hsps. 
              Progress in understanding Hsps has been hampered by the lack of appropriate
              biomolecular probes for specific Hsps and methods to experimentally manipulate
              and assess the effect of variation in Hsps.  

The PIs have developed
              molecular probes specific to the small Hsps in chloroplasts, the cell
              compartment where photosynthesis takes place in plants, as well as assays to
              assess Hsp effectiveness.  Using these tools, they have shown that chloroplast
              small Hsps protect photosynthesis during heat and other environmental stresses,
              by protecting a key stress-sensitive step of photosynthesis (electron transport
              in Photosystem II).  However, differences among plants in the ability of
              chloroplast small Hsp to protect photosynthesis during stress, such as
              predicted differences between heat-tolerant wild plants and heat-sensitive
              crops, have not been examined.

In this series of studies, the PIs will
              examine chloroplast small Hsps in stress-sensitive vs. stress-tolerant wild
              plants to determine how they differ in the cellular quantity and biochemical
              efficiency of small Hsps and how this affects the protection of photosynthesis
              during heat stress.  This would be the first such investigation for plant Hsps.
               They will explore molecular and biochemical variation in small Hsps across a
              range of species, they will examine correlations between small Hsp content and
              plant performance, and they will carry out experiments in vitro, using Hsps
              purified from a range of species, to determine how qualitative and quantitative
              variation in chloroplast small Hsps affects their protective function.  These
              results will contribute both to understanding factors that affect
              stress-tolerance of plants in nature and to understanding factors that may be
              useful in agricultural research. Given the importance of chloroplast small Hsps
              in protecting photosynthesis during many stresses, the central role of
              photosynthesis in plants, and the high sensitivity of photosynthesis to
              environmental stress, the results should be especially useful for the
              bioengineering and breeding of more stress-tolerant crops.


