                 Georges Bank supports a rich fishery because: (1) large portions of the bank
              are shallow enough that light-limitation of phytoplankton is usually not
              important; (2) deep waters rich in inorganic nutrients are available for mixing
              onto the bank; and (3) the Bank's clockwise circulation can retain the
              planktonic stages of important fish species.  The tidally mixed front (TMF) is
              central to the productivity of Georges Bank through the processes of nutrient
              injection in the north and retention of larvae on the south flank.  These two
              regions are connected by a circulation pathway along the front in which
              nutrients lead to phytoplankton and zooplankton growth, creating a donut-shaped
              region of high production surrounding the crest.  It is suggested that the
              productivity of this pathway is the result of northern edge nutrient injections
              and is susceptible to climatic influences on nutrient supply in that region. 
              

  The overall objective of this project is to understand the processes
              within the TMF that sustain the biological productivity of Georges Bank and the
              success of the target species, cod and haddock.  This requires understanding
              how mixing and circulation within the TMF supplies new nutrients, supports
              primary production, and retain larvae.   GLOBEC dye tracer experiments have,
              for the first time, measured directly the near-bottom Lagrangian circulation
              and mixing in the TMF.  Results show that vertical mixing in the front, and the
              on-bank flow through the base of the TMF, are dynamically connected. 

  This
              study is examining the 3-dimensional dynamics of the TMF based on these
              measurements.  Models will help assess how the strength of the across- and
              along-isobath circulation sets time and space scales compatible with the
              development of cod and haddock larvae.  This project consists of a mix of data
              analysis and modeling activities.  First, dye dispersion data and simple shear
              dispersion models are being used to understand the link between cross-bank flow
              and vertical mixing.  Second, a finite-volume coastal ocean model (FVCOM) will
              be used to calculate the temporal and spatial structure of nutrient flux into
              the   TMF, contrasting northern and southern flank inputs.  A coupled FVCOM-
              NPZ (nutrient-phytoplankton-zooplankton) model are being used to test the
              following hypotheses: (i) Nutrient injections in the north are advected around
              the crest of the bank and lead to a plume of elevated phytoplankton  and
              zooplankton production.  (ii) The plume enriches the area of larval entrainment
              on the south flank.  If the above statements are true, then production in the
              plume can be altered by the nutrient content of source waters in the Northeast
              Channel of the Gulf of Maine, and these changes  will affect the feeding
              environment of larval cod and haddock.  Finally, models incorporating the
              measured 3-D flow and turbulence fields are being used to examine spatial
              patterns of larval retention and define the kinds of  environmental transitions
              that larvae experience during this process.
