              Abstract.  Forest ecosystems exchange large amounts of carbon (C) with the
              atmosphere each year, an exchange that is strongly constrained by nutrient
              cycling. Forest productivity is anticipated to increase with the projected
              doubling in the concentration of atmospheric CO2 over the next century. A
              critical area for research and synthesis concerns the feedback effects of
              elevated CO2 on soil N cycling.  Elevated CO2 significantly increased plant
              productivity, the uptake of N from soils and the flux of C to soil microbes but
              did not change litter chemistry, decomposition, the mass balance of N among
              ecosystem pools, gross and net N mineralization or plant N availability. Even
              though plant N availability did not increase under elevated CO2, there is no
              indication that N is progressively limiting the enhanced productivity of this
              ecosystem now in it sixth growing season under elevated CO2. This result is
              surprising given that (i) Net Primary Productivity is demonstrably N limited in
              this ecosystem, (ii) that there is intense competition for available N
among
              plants, microbes and abiotic sinks in soils, and (iii) that the long-term
              productivity of a
single prototype FACE plot at this research site was
              stimulated by elevated CO2 only after the addition of N fertilizer. These
              results suggest a fundamental gap in our understanding of the coupled nature of
              C and N cycles in forest ecosystems, and an opportunity to expand our knowledge
              of ecosystem biogeochemistry. This research will have direct benefits to
              society by addressing a major potential limitation to C sequestration in
              ecosystems that cover over 24 million hectares of forest land in the
              southeastern US; ecosystems that are likely to be managed for their C-sink
              potential under the Kyoto Protocol.
Broader Impacts:  Given the
              interdisciplinary and multi-institutional nature of the Duke Forest FACE
              experiment, this research will have impacts that extend well beyond this
              collaborative team. This grant will train future scientists and recruit and
              retain women graduate students, and will make an effort to broaden the
              participation of minorities by actively participating in the SEEDS program (a
              joint program of ESA and UNCF).  This project will enhance infrastructure for
              research by contributing data sets and an enhanced model to current synthesis
              activities at NCEAS and an international network of 15 N tracer study sites. We
              expect the impact of this work to continue to be high, both in advances to
              fundamental ecosystem science, and in the demonstrable application of ecosystem
              science to issues of global change; issues that will increasingly impact
              society over the next century.

