              AST 0098454
Bolte

In a collaborative research project, Dr. Eric Sandquist at
              San Diego State University and Dr. Michael Bolte at the University of
              California at Santa Cruz will use photometric observations of large numbers
              (tens of thousands) of evolved low-mass stars in globular clusters to probe the
              physical conditions found inside the stars. Because the observable properties
              of a star evolve quickly once it finishes consuming its core hydrogen and
              because a star's lifetime is primarily determined by its mass, stars of very
              slightly different masses can be in very different phases of their lives. By
              simply counting the numbers of stars present as a function of luminosity and
              temperature, these researchers can estimate how quickly stars of approximately
              80% of the mass of the Sun change under the influence of internal
              processes.

The investigators will pursue a number of definite tests of
              stellar physics that can be conducted with these kinds of observations. In
              several metal-poor clusters, a surplus of stars has been observed in the
              subgiant evolutionary phase, which is an indication that there may be an
              unusually efficient means of transporting energy away from the cores of those
              stars. The red giant bump has long been known to test how deeply convective
              motions penetrate into giant branch stars, and the investigators will test
              mixing processes that this feature and counts of red giant stars at all
              luminosities can provide. They also describe several new diagnostics that can
              be applied to the helium fusion phases of a star's life ( the horizontal branch
              and asymptotic giant branch). The asymptotic giant branch in particular has
              been difficult to study because of its short duration. The diagnostics provide
              practical methods of testing whether helium-burning stars evolve in ways
              predicted by theory. Finally, they describe the constraints that can be placed
              on the dynamical evolution of entire clusters by observations of blue straggler
              stars -a population that appears to be created by collisions of stars or the
              evolution of binary stars.

The study will involve the analysis of CCD data
              already collected from a number of heavily-populated globular clusters,
              followed by thorough study of the incompleteness of the photometry -- a
              computationally intensive step that has been responsible for the small number
              of large-sample studies to date. To derive robust star counts, what is needed
              is detailed understanding of the probability that cluster stars were lost in
              the light of other stars or in noise as a function of stellar brightness and
              distance from the cluster center.  Photometric studies of this kind are very
              important stepping stones toward new tests of our understanding of stellar
              physics and stellar populations.
***

