              The mosses (Division or Phylum Bryophyta) comprise the second largest group of
              land plants, after the highly successful angiosperms (flowering plants), and
              are important components of virtually all terrestrial ecosystems.  Tremendous
              progress has been made in the last five years toward an understanding of
              phylogenetic relationships among the mosses and this project will build
              significantly upon that foundation.  Information contained
in DNA sequences
              acquired from multiple chloroplast and nuclear genes will be used to
              reconstruct genealogical relationships across the full spectrum of moss
              diversity, sampled from nearly all 865 currently recognized genera of mosses.
              In turn, the genealogical findings will then be used to investigate historical
              and ecological factors that affect patterns of moss diversity on a global
              scale.  A novel aspect of the research will be the integration of different
              approaches to the measurement of biodiversity.  In particular, the
              investigators will compare so-called taxic diversity, the numbers of species
              recognized by traditional taxonomic studies, to so-called phylogenetic measures
              of diversity (PD: phylogenetic diversity) based on variation (mutational
              diversity) at the DNA level.  Such measures of phylogenetic diversity have
              recently gained prominence in conservation biology, and the research will
              extend such applications to the study of global biodiversity patterns in a
              major group of terrestrial organisms.  
	Collaborating investigators Dr. Jon
              Shaw at Duke University and Dr. Bernard Goffinet at University of Connecticut
              will seek to test specific hypotheses about relative levels of biodiversity in
              tropical versus high latitude ecosystems, and between communities in different
              types of habitats.  The work will therefore contribute to a broader
              understanding of the underlying mechanisms that control the world's
              biodiversity.  This funding will also contribute significantly to the training
              of young biologists at Duke University and the University of Connecticut.


