              There has been a significant change in the upper ocean characteristics of the
              eastern Arctic in 1995. The change was manifested through the loss of a
              near-surface layer known as the cold halocline layer (CHL). Without the CHL,
              the Arctic water column looks and behaves like the Antarctic water column. The
              local impact involves the likely initiation of considerable winter ocean heat
              fluxes (15-20 W/m 2 ) and reduction of winter ice growth by 70-80% relative to
              previous years in which the CHL was present. It is not known how long the CHL
              did, or will, remain absent, though it appears to begun recovery by summer
              1999. 

This project will examine CTD stations throughout the Arctic region
              in order to quantify the strength of the CHL as well as other
              seasonally-averaged characteristics of the ocean-ice interaction (e.g., ocean
              heat flux, bulk stability, reduction in ice growth potential). The
              quantification is achieved through analysis of upper ocean integrated property
              distributions, and then generating robust bulk property parameters describing
              relevant physical quantities. The methodology was originally designed for
              analysis of Antarctic ice-ocean interaction, but as recently shown, is equally
              applicable to the Arctic. Once applied to the Arctic data, the parameters will
              be averaged to provide climatologies for the various properties. The spatial
              distribution of these climatologies will be compared to physical and dynamical
              properties of the Arctic in an attempt to determine the relationship between
              the climatological nature of the ocean-ice interaction and the
              physical/dynamical setting. Methods of optimal interpolation will then be
              applied, to the extent allowed by the sporadic data coverage, in an effort to
              determine how the various integrated properties have changed through space and
              time. This will provide spatial/temporal distributions of the ocean-ice
              interaction that will be used to evaluate the manner in which the CHL and other
              ocean-ice interactions have changed. The temporal variations will be examined
              for evidence of cycles, trends, or other coherent patterns, as have been
              suggested recently in the literature. Analysis of ocean data is ideal for this
              undertaking given the long time scales of the medium which may reveal evidence
              of the suspected changes even in sparsely sampled (in space and time) regions.
              


