              Collaborative Research: Sequential Monte Carlo Methods and Their
              Applications

Jun Liu, Harvard University 
Rong Chen, Univ. Illinois at
              Chicago
Xiaodong Wang, Texas A&M University

Abstract
              (Technical):
Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methodology recently emerged in
              statistics and engineering fields promises to solve a wide class of nonlinear
              filtering and optimization problems, opening up new frontiers for
              cross-fertilization between statistics and many areas of applications. A
              distinctive feature of SMC is its ability to adapt to the dynamics of the
              underlying stochastic systems via recursive simulation of the variables
              involved.  Although special forms of SMC date back to 1950s, the general use of
              the method appeared only recently and its many key properties have yet been
              well understood.  This research group will focus on three major theoretical
              issues regarding the design of effective SMC-based computational tools and
              three important application areas, namely, wireless communications,
              computational biology, and business data analysis.  In the theory part, they
              will study approaches of generating better Monte Carlo samples for tracking
              system dynamics; investigate roles of resampling which is critical to the
              effectiveness of SMC; and propose system reconfiguration strategies for more
              efficient SMC algorithms.  In the application part, they plan to design novel
              signal processing and network control algorithms for wireless multimedia
              communications; develop better multiple sequence alignment models and SMC-based
              optimization method for protein structures; and build SMC-based modeling and
              analysis tools for business data. It is anticipated that the proposed research
              will culminate in the formulation of novel SMC methodologies and will bring the
              promise of the SMC paradigm into the practical arena of many emerging
              applications.

Stochastic dynamic systems are routinely used in many
              application fields such as automatic control, engineering, and finance.  The
              statistical analyses of these systems are crucial.  However, except for a few
              special cases, quantitative analyses of these systems still present major
              challenges to researchers.  Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) technique recently
              emerged in the field of statistics and engineering shows a great promise on
              solving a wide class of nonlinear filtering, prediction, and optimization
              problems, providing us with many exciting new research opportunities.  The name
              "Monte Carlo" was coined in 1940s by scientists involved in designing atomic
              bombs and it refers to a technique in which computer is used to simulate and
              study a complex stochastic system. The technique was named after the famed
              gambling resort because its procedures incorporate the element of chance. A
              distinctive feature of SMC is its ability to sequentially simulate the system
              by considering one variable at a time.  The general use of SMC appeared
              recently and its invasion into many fields of science and engineering has just
              begun. Researchers including people in this research group have demonstrated
              that SMC can be successfully adapted to solve chemistry, engineering, and
              statistical problems. Understanding its theoretical properties and extending
              the use of SMC to other fields are the main focuses of this project. More
              specifically, this research group will focuse on three major theoretical issues
              regarding the design of effective SMC-based computational tools and three
              important application areas including wireless communications, computational
              biology, and business data analysis. These applications are not only important
              by their own merits, but also essential as the test ground for the new theories
              being developed and as the sources of stimulation for new research directions
              for SMC.  It is anticipated that this research will culminate in the
              formulation of novel SMC methodologies and will bring the promise of the SMC
              paradigm into the  practical arena of many emerging applications.  In
              particular, this research will bear fruits in the following areas: novel
              designs of signal processing and network control algorithms for wireless
              multimedia communications; developments of better algorithms analyzing
              biological sequence and structure data; and a SMC-based tool for business data
              analysis and prediction.

