              This collaborative project with Clemen (0084383) and Gelman (0084368) will
              develop and demonstrate improved methods for using expert judgment in
              environmental risk analysis.  Risk-analytic models rely heavily on parameter
              estimates obtained using either informal or formal expert judgments.  Such
              methods can be sensitive to two problems: biases in experts coding their
              knowledge into probability distributions (such as overconfidence bias), and the
              typically uncertain degree of dependence in judgments between experts (e.g.,
              each expert's judgment combines his reading of a common scientific literature
              and his own experience and interpretations).  The project will analyze the
              properties of two state-of-the-art methods for combining expert judgments: the
              "classical" method developed by Roger Cooke and colleagues at Delft University
              of Technology and the "copula" method developed by Robert Clemen and colleagues
              at Duke University.  It will compare the methods mathematically and by
              evaluating their performance on synthetic and actual expert judgment data sets.
               In addition, the project will develop improved methods for combining
              distributions based on fully Bayesian methods for incorporating overconfidence
              and dependence among experts, and compare them with the two existing
              methods.

The project will lead to better methods and an improved
              understanding of alternative methods for combining expert judgment in
              environmental risk analysis.  Many parameters in a risk-analysis model cannot
              be measured directly, for physical or ethical reasons (e.g., one typically
              cannot trace pollutants far from their source nor conduct toxicity studies on
              humans).  As a result, parameter estimates are often based on expert judgment. 
              In most cases, the expert judgment is applied informally, as when the model
              builders use their own "best guess" estimates of parameter values.  In some
              cases (such as risks associated with nuclear power), judgments (in the form of
              probability distributions) are elicited from a panel of experts.  However,
              there is at present no standard method for combining judgments from multiple
              experts, and limited understanding of the properties of alternative methods. 
              This research will lead to better understanding of alternative methods and,
              ultimately, to better use of expert judgment.


