              Lay Summary - 
Collaborative Research: Fahrbach and Mesce 

Insect
              metamorphosis is accompanied by extensive reorganization of the central nervous
              system.  These changes are regulated by steroid hormones, and during
              metamorphosis insect neurons and glia express nuclear steroid hormone
              receptors.  A notable feature of metamorphosis in the nervous system of moths
              and butterflies is the formation of compound ganglia from individual segmental
              ganglia.  In the moth Manduca sexta, a large species easily reared in the
              laboratory, compound ganglia form shortly after the caterpillar pupates.  This
              collaborative project will test a model of compound ganglion formation in which
              two classes of glial cells are the primary steroid targets.  In this model, the
              giant glial cells of the interganglionic connectives move clusters of neurons
              by changes in their cytoarchitecture while the perineurial glial cells that
              wrap the central nervous system alter their adhesive properties to permit the
              neurons to move freely.  Experiments to be conducted at the University of
              Minnesota in Dr. Mesce's laboratory will describe the motility of giant glial
              cells during the formation of compound ganglia and will study how damage to the
              giant glial cells affects ganglionic migration and fusion.  These experiments
              are facilitated as a result of the recent discovery that a form of fasciclin
              II, a protein expressed on the surface of insect cells, can be used as a marker
              for the giant glial cells.  Experiments to be conducted in Dr. Fahrbach's
              laboratory at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign will determine the
              timing of perineurial glial cell proliferation during metamorphosis and study
              the effects of ablation of this cell population on ganglionic migration and
              fusion.  In addition, antibodies targeted to specific isoforms of the insect
              steroid hormone receptor (the ecdysone receptor, EcR) will be used to determine
              which form of the receptor is expressed by glial cells.  This is envisioned as
              a first step toward identifying steroid-regulated genes involved in regulation
              of the glial cytoskeleton and glial cell adhesion molecules.

Previous
              studies of metamorphosis of the insect nervous system have focused exclusively
              on neurons.  This project will provide new information about the developmental
              modulation of glial cell cytoarchitecture and glial cell adhesivity during the
              postembryonic life of insects.  The results are likely to generalize to all
              arthropods and, because the regulation of cell "stickiness" and cell shape are
              fundamental attributes of all multicellular organisms, to other animals as
              well.

