              ABSTRACT

Carbon enters ecosystems through a single process, photosynthesis,
              and nearly all is returned to the atmosphere through respiration, some 50-80%
              of which occurs below ground. Soil respiration integrates root metabolism and
              the activity of decomposer organisms. While the major processes affecting plant
              metabolic (autotrophic) respiration and decomposition rates (heterotrophic
              respiration) are known, the ability to predict variations in soil respiration
              in space and time is limited - a major uncertainty in the current and future
              carbon cycle. 

The work proposed here will combine new measurement and
              modeling approaches for separating autotrophic and heterotrophic respiration,
              and determining the age of C respired from soils. At field sites in the
              Ameriflux network that span a range of North American biomes and climates,
              these methods will include: (1) frequent, automated, measurements of soil
              respiration and related factors; (2) isotope mass balance methods based on
              measurements of stable isotopes and radiocarbon in respired CO2; and (3)
              incubations to determine responses of heterotrophic respiration components to
              changing soil conditions; and (4) at some sites, manipulation of soil moisture
              content through rainfall exclusion. The data generated will be used to
              partition soil respired C into autotrophic and heterotrophic components, to
              determine the age of heterotrophically respired C and identify the components
              of soil organic matter contributing to its production, and to determine how
              these relationships chance with controlling variables
(photosynthesis rate,
              soil conditions, etc). The results will be used to parameterize a
              new
autotrophic respiration component of the CASA ecosystem model, and to test
              how well the model predicts the balance of sources of heterotrophic respiration
              on seasonal to interannual timescales. Predictions of the CASA model will be
              further tested across regional gradients spanning (1) a climosequence and (2) a
              suite of sites from tropical forest to tundra. We will use atmospheric records
              of seasonal variation in C isotopes (13C at the global network sites and 14C in
              atmospheric CO2 at Point Barrow, Alaska) as a global test of the CASA model's
              ability to determine the seasonal to interannual exchange of C between northern
              hemisphere terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere.

Intellectual merit.
              Separating the components of ecosystem respiration is one of the fundamentally
              important research challenges in ecosystem science. This activity will use new
              tools, in particular, innovative use of the radiocarbon tracer in measurements
              and models, to develop process level understanding of C fluxes at selected
              Ameriflux sites.

Broader impacts. This work will advance fundamental
              understanding of how terrestrial ecosystems influence the global carbon cycle,
              and will improve projections of future atmospheric concentrations of carbon
              dioxide by showing how heterotrophic respiration will respond to changes in
              temperature and moisture. Our program to educate students through a short
              course in radiocarbon at the W.M. Keck Carbon Cycle Accelerator Mass
              Spectrometry facility will train the next generation of scientists in the
              applications of radiocarbon to study land and ocean C cycling.

