              Recent years have seen the re-establishment of large-scale marine resource
              utilization by humans in the Antarctic. In contrast to early sealing and
              whaling activity, the modern impact is directed on krill and finfish
              populations, most notably of the Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus
              eleginoides), but also its congenor the Antarctic toothfish (Dissostichus
              mawsoni) in the Ross Sea. Toothfish are a valuable resource and are likely to
              continue to command a high price in world markets. However, extensive illegal
              fishing has lead to considerable concern that Patagonian toothfish populations
              are being over-harvested. In other parts of the world, over-harvesting of
              larger, commercially valuable species has led to fishing down of marine food
              webs, leaving impoverished, less valuable ecosystems. The goal of the
              Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, part of
              the Antarctic Treaty System, is to allow harvest while avoiding disruptions to
              the Antarctic ecosystem. To achieve this, the sustainable management of the
              fishery depends on reliable age data. Age data allow population age structure
              to be modeled, so that growth, mortality and recruitment rates can be estimated
              and used to understand population dynamics. Age data provides the basis to
              determine the life history pattern of a species, to model population dynamics,
              and to determine which age classes are vulnerable to over-exploitation under a
              particular set of environmental conditions. Current age and growth information
              for toothfish is based on age determination methodologies which are not
              validated and depend on the specific laboratory and principal investigator.
              Recently, the Commission of the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
              Resources has endorsed three preparation methodologies using otoliths and a
              common set of criteria for estimating age from otolith micro-structure. The
              CCAMLR Otolith Network has also been initiated as a medium for exchanging
              samples to ensure that age estimates are comparable between readers and
              laboratories. However, considerable work is needed to ensure that age estimates
              generated by the three methodologies are accurate. One technique that has been
              successful is radiometric age determination, which uses the disequilibria of
              lead-210 and radium-226 in otoliths as a natural chronometer. This proposal
              brings together an international collaboration to examine population age
              structure for both toothfish species, in an experimental design built around
              radiometric validation tests of age data generated by all three preparation
              methodologies. To integrate the validation component within an Antarctic-wide
              effort to examine toothfish population age structure, sub-samples for
              validation work will be drawn from sample sets taken for population age studies
              by research teams working in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and
              France, as well as the United States. Scientists at Moss Landing Marine
              Laboratories will use radiometric age determination to independently age
              otoliths from Patagonian and Antarctic toothfishes. Scientists at Old Dominion
              University will use a system already established for aging to generate
              validated age data, allowing growth, mortality, and longevity to be estimated
              by geographic areas. The project will provide validated otolith sample sets
              that can be used as a foundation for a unified and validated age estimation
              system for the toothfishes.  This study will provide information which will be
              disseminated to the public, policy-makers and the international community. The
              project will provide opportunities for under-represented students at both
              universities. 


