              PROJECT SUMMARY
Some of the best evidence for the effects of abrupt
              environmental change on the Earth's biosphere and geochemical cycles can be
              found in Cretaceous strata.  These rocks contain clear evidence for drastically
              altered atmospheric composition and oceanic circulation that resulted in
              widespread, episodic, and geologically ephemeral (~0.5 to 1 m.y.) oceanic
              anoxic events (OAEs). The recent documentation of negative C isotope excursions
              at the base of some mid-Cretaceous OAE deposits, and a likely contemporaneous
              isotope anomaly of greater magnitude delineated by the d13C values of early
              Aptian terrestrial flora, suggest that environmental perturbation during the
              mid-Cretaceous may have been the result of greenhouse-gas-driven warming at
              rates comparable to those inferred for the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum,
              and currently experienced by Earth over the last century. Thus detailed,
              integrative study of these mid-Cretaceous events, such as will be carried out
              by this study, holds potential for refining our understanding of abrupt
              climatic disturbance during greenhouse warming.
This investigation is designed
              to establish the nature of changes in environmental boundary conditions during
              mid-Cretaceous OAEs, and to interpret the temporal and mechanistic relationship
              of these changes within the context of potential forcing mechanisms. Two
              oceanic anoxic events that represent the most extreme and widespread
              environmental change are being studied: (1) the early Aptian OAE1a (119.5 to
              120.5 Ma), and (2) the late Aptian to early Albian OAE1b (~108.5 to 113 Ma). 
              Shelf and slope sections in the Sierra Madre Oriental of Mexico that represent
              the most expanded sedimentary records available, and for which we have
              developed a detailed chronostratigraphic framework are the primary field area
              of study. These platform deposits have accumulation rates 3 to 15 times higher
              than those typical of deep-sea sequences that should provide clear lead-lag
              relationships between the different proxy records. We will also investigate
              select deep-sea records of the OAEs to define a more global signal and a wider
              paleo-depth perspective. One of the fundamental and previously unexplored
              aspects of this investigation is to unravel, where possible, on a 103 to105 yr
              time scale the precise phase relationship between proxy records and the
              interactions, responses, and feedbacks of their inferred environmental
              changes.
The research will integrate a series of stratigraphic, paleontologic,
              geochemical and isotopic proxies of carbon and nutrient cycling, productivity,
              bottom-water oxygenation, and sea level. Detailed nannofossil, and planktic and
              benthic foraminiferal assemblage studies are being carried out to determine
              variation in surface- and deep-water environments including changes in nutrient
              budgets, productivity, water column structure, temperature gradients, and
              deep-water oxygenation.  Geochemical and isotopic records (d13Ccarb, d13Corg,
              TOC, %CaCO3, and d34S) are being developed as proxies of carbon cycling,
              organic carbon burial, productivity and anoxia.  In order to develop a more
              complete understanding of the environmental implications of our geochemical and
              isotopic proxy records, we will compare their rate/phasing/amplitude
              relationships to paleoecological trends inferred from microfossil assemblage
              data, and to the relative sea-level history. Isotopic analysis of terrestrial
              vascular plant matter in the Barremian through Albian interval of a deep-sea
              core (Site 398) will provide an independent and highly sensitive indicator of
              disruption to normal carbon cycling, as well as shifts in CO2 fluxes and carbon
              reservoirs.
Finally, we will carry out numerical experiments using a box model
              for the carbon isotopic systematics of the ocean and a linked biogeochemistry-
              3D global ocean model in order to assess how the proxy records and their
              inferred environmental conditions constrain a series of geological 'forcings'
              relevant to the hypothesized mechanisms for the origin of the OAEs.  The
              resulting set of high-resolution proxy records developed simultaneously from
              statigraphically expanded sections, coupled with numeric modeling and
              data-model comparisons should provide significant insight into the
              oceanographic and atmospheric conditions underlying oceanic anoxic events.  
              Moreover, this study of abrupt environmental change associated with the classic
              Cretaceous OAEs should provide an end-member model for biogeochemical cycling
              during greenhouse warming of other geologic periods, including the current
              earth system.

