              Collaborative Research: An Integrated Interior Infill System for Mass Customized
              Housing
Abstract
In the future, homes will contain the most complex
              activities of any building type. With the aging of the
baby boomers, homes
              must become centers for proactive healthcare, distributed energy production,
              work,
commerce, learning, etc. Homes must become agile environments that
              accommodate rapidly changing
needs, activities, and technologies. They must
              respond to demands of sophisticated, affluent baby
boomer generation who want
              choice and tailored solutions that closely reflect their values and needs.
              But
places of living are poorly prepared for this future. Most new apartments
              are generic, low-grade, low-tech,
inflexible, disruptive to upgrade, high
              maintenance, and ill-designed. Architects and engineers play no
significant
              role in the creation of places of living, except at the very high end of the
              market. Most housing
research is focused on cost reduction - not on preparing
              places of living to meet new requirements in the
future.
The objective of
              this research project is to conceptualize and assess the viability of a new
              approach that that may result in high-value, customized, reconfigurable,
              adaptable, multifamily housing. The  three coordinated thrusts are as
              follows.
1) The development of design concepts for the use of prefabricated,
              volumetric module ioshellslc of a
dimension that can be efficiently and
              affordable shipped to the jobsite, combined with the application
of a mass
              customized cabinetry-like integrated interior infill (I 3 ) system for
              apartment fit-out. Modular
construction is the fastest growing segment of the
              housing market, but its potential is limited by a
narrow range of design
              possibilities, its failure to take advantage of modern
              manufacturing
technologies, and the labor intensive operations required to
              connect modules at the site. This
research will employ modular construction
              for what it is most suited for - structural shells with building
services that
              can be rapidly assembled. 
2) The development of concepts for automated,
              web-based, consumer design tools based on
parametrically defined I 3
              components. This effort will take advantage of prior work developed at MIT
and
              in industry for user customization of apartment design and cabinetry.
3) The
              development and testing of an I 3 production methodology. The following issues
              will be
investigated: Can an I 3 system allow mass-customized components to be
              manufactured efficiently and
with the same quality as identical mass-produced
              units? Can the controlled and precise fabrication of
integrated components
              allow new materials such as advanced polymers, composites, and
              special-
purpose metals to find their way into the home? Can delicate
              electronics and devices be more easily
integrated into I 3 components than
              with conventional construction? Can parallel manufacturing of the
modular
              shell and interior components reduce production cycle time?
In summary, this
              research will give the homebuilding supply chain, suppliers, factory producers,
              and
builders a vision of the future - and an approach to the design tools and
              lean production systems that can
make that vision a reality. The research will
              attempt to leap beyond incremental improvements in the
conventional process,
              to an agile and adaptable system of mass-customization using
              technologies
processes that could be put into effect in the near term. The
              research will also have important academic
impacts. It will provide two
              Masters thesis topics and multi-disciplinary research experiences for
              two
undergraduate research assistants. The class project in EIN 3314 Work
              Measurement and Design,
involving lean manufacturing in local industry, will
              provide valuable, team-based, real world learning
experiences for about 30
              undergraduate engineering students.


