              
The goal of this project is to determine how pink salmon in the northern Gulf
              of Alaska are affected by variation in the plankton production system during
              their first months at sea. This will be accomplished through an integrated
              project that includes field sampling, laboratory analyses and modeling. Pink
              salmon occupy surface waters of the continental shelf in the summer and fall
              after entering marine waters in the spring. In that period they grow rapidly
              and their feeding changes from small zooplankton in the summer to large
              zooplankton in the fall. This project will document temporal and spatial
              variation in prey use and availability, it will assess the effects of the shelf
              environment by measuring condition of pink salmon, and it will use spatially-
              explicit foraging/bioenergetic modeling to understand observed patterns in
              feeding, growth and condition. Fish of hatchery origin, identified by thermal
              otolith marks, will be of particular interest, as the marine survival of each
              hatchery cohort will be available a year after those fish enter the marine
              environment.

Spatial and temporal variation in pink salmon diets and surface
              zooplankton will be described through laboratory analyses of field samples, and
              the basis for diet shifts to larger prey will be determined by calculations of
              prey selectivity. Standard length/weight condition measures will be calculated,
              and the energy content of salmon will be measured by calorimetry. The
              relationship between condition, growth and the environment will be examined.
              Habitat quality over the continental shelf will be assessed with spatially
              explicit models with foraging and bioenergetic components that produce weight-
              specific estimates of growth potential. Bioenergetic modeling will also be used
              to estimate daily ration and seasonal consumption by pink salmon. The
              relationship between diets of pink salmon and other planktivorous fishes will
              be assessed.

This research will contribute directly to accomplishment of the
              GLOBEC program goal of understanding how production of upper trophic level
              species is linked to variation in oceanographic conditions. It is widely
              accepted that production of salmon in the GOA is determined by planktonic
              production. Detailed descriptions of spatial and temporal variation in diet,
              prey availability, temperature, and fish condition will substantially enhance
              our understanding of the connections between the marine environment and salmon
              production.


