              P.I. Rognstad, Mark                           	                                 
                                        Proposal: 0222468
       Bowen, Andrew              
                                                                                             
                            0222432

The PIs propose to upgrade the DSL-120 sonar mapping
              system and resolve problems related to the integration of DSL-120A sensors and
              capabilities. Primary tasks to be completed as part of this work are: 1)
              Improvement of the signal to noise ratio of the system to enhance the ability
              to extract useful phase-bathymetry data from the basic sonar system. 2) The PIs
              will resolve the acoustic interference between the sidescan sonar and the
              Doppler velocity log (DVL), which has prevented the simultaneous operation of
              both systems. The inability to use the DVL results in sonar surveys with
              degraded navigation data, particularly for surveys covering areas too large for
              continuous transponder navigation. Attempts to synchronize the two sonars
              during the upgrade were unsuccessful, due to long and variable length latency
              in the response of the DVL to external triggering. 3) Bathymetric sonar
              capabilities of the DSL-120A system will be improved to enhance resolution of
              small-scale features closer to the resolving capabilities of the backscatter
              imagery. Phase bathymetric sonars like the DSL-120A cannot distinguish acoustic
              reflections from different parts of the seafloor that arrive at the sonar
              transducers at the same time - that is, that are the same distance from the tow
              vehicle. Over a flat bottom, this will be the case for that part of the
              seafloor closest to the vehicle; in areas with high relief, this can happen in
              any part of the mapped swath. Multibeam sonar, which combines signals from
              dozens of hydrophones, can synthesize narrow beams that reject adjacent
              reflections, giving greatly improved bathymetry in these situations. The
              capability to operate the SM2000 with the DSL-120A sonar system will be added.
              The multi-beam system will be synchronized with both DVL and sidescan/swath
              bathymetry sonars, so all three acoustic sensors may be used simultaneously.
              The proposed improvements will complete the full integration of all the
              requisite sensors and capabilities of the DSL-120A sonar system. These
              improvements will improve signal quality of the backscatter and
              phase-bathymetric sonar, improve navigation through the use of the DVL, and
              offer the potential for collection of SM2000 near-bottom multibeam data to
              improve the quality of bathymetric data acquired using the DSL-120A sonar.

