              AST-0087172
Phillip C. Stancil

This is a collaborative research project with
              Drs Stephen Lepp, (University of Nevada, Las Vegas, AST0087348), and Alexander
              Dalgarno, (Harvard University, AST0088213). This program will construct models
              to investigate the formation of the first cosmological objects. These models
              will describe the history of the first bound objects to form from the
              primordial gas in the early universe. They will include the coupled evolution
              of the time-dependent, nonequilibrium chemical, atomic and molecular level
              populations as well as the nonequilibrium rovibrational level populations of
              the molecules with contributions due to chemical reactions in the primordial
              gas. The models can be used to suggest strategies for observing structures in
              the early universe in the Infrared from space.

This program will use
              astrophysical modeling to investigate the formation of the first cosmological
              objects. These models will compute the coupled evolution of the time-dependent
              nonequilibrium chemical, atomic and molecular level population, thermal, and
              hydrodynamic history of the first bound objects to form from the primordial
              gas. This will be the first time such extensive, coupled evolution models have
              been attempted.  In addition, this project will investigate the explicit
              nonequilibrium rovibrational level populations of the primordial molecules with
              contributions due to chemical reactions, resulting in an improved determination
              of molecular cooling and the prediction of the emission spectra of primordial
              clouds. The emission spectra will be used to suggest the most likely ways these
              objects may be observed with the next generation of infrared space telescopes.
              The needed atomic and molecular data and derived cooling functions will be
              assembled and posted on the World Wide Web. The data that is not available,
              primarily involving rovibrational state-specific molecular collisions, will be
              computed with established quantum-mechanical techniques. The studies of the
              primordial gas will be extended to follow protogalaxy and protostar formation
              under increasing metallicity and radiation field conditions to the beginning of
              the era of Population II. These studies will be relevant to the interpretation
              and planning of future space-based observations with NGST, SIRTF, FIRST, and
              Astro-F and ground-based telescopes. Funding for this project was provided by
              the NSF program for Extragalactic Astronomy & Cosmology (AST/EXC).

***
 

