              Project Abstract
Proposal 0217605
Colonial Botany: Gender, Politics, and
              Commerce between Europe and the West Indies in the Eighteenth Century
Londa
              Schiebinger, Penn State

The last several years have witnessed renewed
              interest in the history of botany, the "big science" of early modern Europe.
              This book-length project explores the movement, triumph,  suppression, and
              extinction of different botanical knowledges in 18th century encounters between
              Europeans and the inhabitants of the Caribbean. The project has several
              purposes.  First, it asks scholarly audiences to consider the cultural politics
              of plants. Plants rarely appear in undergraduate or graduate courses on
              European, American, World History or History of Science, and are rarely part of
              our grand narratives of war, peace, or even everyday life. But they are
              important cultural artifacts, often at the center of political and economic
              struggles. In the eighteenth-century, plants played a role in political
              struggles surrounding slavery (slave women, for example, employed
              abortifacients to resist producing more field hands for plantation owners).
              Plants also figured in battles between trading companies, states, and local
              bio-pirates for monopolies on profitable colonial commodities.

Second, this
              project seeks to examine the linkage between colonial botany and gender
              relations. While gender has received some attention in the history of
              eighteenth-century anthropology and travel literature and in the history of
              slavery, it has received relatively little in the history of colonial botany. 
              In this project, the PI explores how European gender relations guided
              naturalists as they explored other lands, peoples, and their knowledges.
              

Third, this project contributes to rethinking the history of botany.  A
              long-standing narrative has presented modern botany as the rise of taxonomy,
              nomenclature, and "pure" systems of classification.   This approach does not
              capture the realities of botany in the eighteenth century as a matter of state.
              Emerging nation-states that vied for land and resources saw botanists who
              collected rare and beautiful plants for study and global exchange as crucial
              for European colonizing efforts in tropical climates. 

Fourth, this project
              seeks to develop further and apply a new methodological tool that Robert
              Proctor has called "agnatology"--the study of culturally-induced ignorances.
              Agnatology refocuses questions about "how we know" to include questions about
              what we do not know and why not. While much of the literature on colonial
              science has focused on how knowledge is made and transferred between
              continents, the PI explores the non-transfer of important bodies of knowledge
              from the New World to Europe.

The PI will work in archives and libraries in
              Europe and the Caribbean to prepare a book, for a broad scholarly audience
              including those working in STS as well as botanists and naturalists.  

