              Egerstedt, Magnus
CCR-0207411

Communications in Embedded Control Systems -
              Project Summary
This project investigates how different embedded software and
              hardware
components should communicate with each other in order for the
              overall, global
system to behave in a satisfactory way. The main area of
              investigation is the
information theoretic content of the transmitted signals,
              i.e. a study of how
many bits of information need to be transmitted between
              the different components
in order to make the physical system meet its
              specifications. For instance,
autonomous robotic systems are normally relaying
              on a variety of heterogeneous
sensors, and the question then becomes, which of
              the sensors are needed? And
furthermore, is it possible to compress the data
              in a systematic way, e.g. using
virtual sensors, so that information that is
              not essential to the current task,
or mode of operation, can be
              discarded?

Since the sensory data needed for accomplishing a certain task
              depends both on
the control law, the dynamics of the system, and the
              complexity of the task,
information theory provides a tool for treating
              questions concerning sensor and
actuator selection and control mode design in
              a unified way. This project is
focused on the following two enabling areas of
              research:
1. Modeling of the information theoretic content of the symbolic,
              computer
generated inputs used for controlling continuous, mechanical
              devices.
2. Selection of embedded sensors and actuators for a multi-agent,
              robotic
system. This selection is done so that the control system meets
              its
specifications in the presence of bandwidth constraints, i.e. so the
              robots
maintain formation while avoiding obstacles in the environment.

In
              this project computer generated, or linguistic control commands are modeled
as
              strings of mode descriptions that can be read by trigger based hybrid
systems.
              In other words, models for software based control of physical,
continuous
              devices are developed in such a way that the actual control signals
have a
              clear information theoretic content in terms of code lengths, thus
connecting
              the field of multi-modal control with that of information theory.
This model
              enables the investigation of component integration issues. Since each
sensor
              or actuator contributes to the total number of bits needed for coding
              the
control signals, by minimizing the code lengths subject to the constraint
              that
the system should behave in a satisfactory way, a natural measure of
              what
components are needed in the current mode of operation is derived.
              Furthermore,
the explicit focus on code lengths has immediate implication on
              coding theory,
i.e. a theory for how the information shared between different
              embedded
components should be represented is a direct consequence of this
              research.

The information theoretic approach to control theory under
              investigation in this
project has a number of potential applications outside
              the field of embedded
control. For instance, in teleoperated robotics the
              control signals are
transmitted over communication channels in which the
              presence of channel noise
makes it preferable to transmit instructions that
              are as short as possible. A
related problem arises in the area of minimum
              attention control, where an
attention functional is defined as a measure of
              the control variability.

