              0085458
Jiracek

This project will develop computer-based learning tools to
              teach the concepts of: 1) digital signal analysis, and 2) wave characteristics,
              in geophysical context.  This will be done in a unique way by using temporal
              and spatial data collected at SAGE (Summer of Applied Geophysical Experience). 
              During the 18 years that SAGE has operated, the faculty have recognized a major
              lack of understanding of important fundamental geophysical concepts after
              courses at home campuses and after completion of the SAGE program.  This is
              despite special efforts with extra lectures and demonstrations in these topics
              at SAGE.  Topics such as the consequences of digitizing (aliasing, truncation,
              Fourier analysis, filtering, etc.) and wave phenomena such as scattering, phase
              and group velocity, and dispersion are simply not appreciated by most students
              (especially undergraduates).  In today's increasingly digital world these
              concepts must be fully understood for basic competency in geophysics.  The two
              topics chosen are critical to understanding many fundamental relations in
              several geophysical methods.  The goal is to insure that those geophysics
              students completing SAGE, and at campuses elsewhere, understand how digital
              analysis is used in seismology, electromagnetics, and potential methods
              (gravity and magnetics).  And, that they know the principles of wave
              propagation in low-loss, low frequency electromagnetic waves.  The
              computer-based aids are expected to sharply increase a student's fundamental
              grasp of modern geophysics.  The two learning modules will be integrated and
              hyper linked and will utilize the latest in computer simulations,
              visualizations, and interactive self-discovery to teach basic ideas. 
              Advantages to tying the proposed effort to SAGE include using past, co-located
              SAGE data collected with different geophysical methods and to provide a unique
              assessment environment.  The topics will be reinforced at SAGE as the students
              complete their own field work and apply their understanding first-hand to the
              collection, analysis, and interpretation of the new results.  The tools will be
              incorporated back at the home campuses of SAGE students and faculty (including
              one community college) and they will be disseminated to other campuses via
              Internet access.  Success of the modules will be determined by appropriate
              testing especially with SAGE REU (Research Experiences for Undergraduates)
              students since they return six months after SAGE for a winter workshop.  To
              insure proper testing the PIs have enlisted the assistance of the Center for
              Research in Math and Science Education at San Diego State University (SDSU). 
              Development of computer graphics, animation, and visualization will be done by
              SDSU's Instructional Technology Services under the technical direction of SAGE
              faculty.

