              Proposal title: Complex differential geometry and rigidity
Proposal number: DMS
              - 0203647

                         Abstract

The proposer plans to do
              research in the following three topics in differential
geometry:  1) the
              geometry of nonpositively curved Riemannian manifolds with 
degenerate Ricci
              tensor;  2) the structure of compact Kaehler manifold with nonpositive
              
bisectional curvature; 3) metric rigidity/non-rigidity for complex hyperbolic
              spaces. 
For topic 1), the proposer has obtained some results in the real
              analytic cases, 
and he proposes to investigate the smooth cases in this
              context.  For 2), he  has 
studied the class of compact Kaehler manifolds with
              nonpositive bisectional curvature. 
Under some additional non-degenerateness
              assumption, he was able to obtain a structural 
result for such manifolds,
              which can be viewed as the dual version of classical 
Howard-Smyth-Wu
              splitting theorem. He would like to study the general case, as well as 
some
              other related  questions regarding this type of manifolds. For topic 3), he
              proposes 
to study two metric rigidity questions about  the complex
              hyper!
bolic space, in dimension two or higher. One is a non-equivariant
              metric rigidity 
question for quarter-pinched metrics, the other is for some
              special type of CAT(0) 
singular metrics.  

The proposed research lies in
              the field of differential geometry, which is a branch 
of mathematics aimed at
              understanding the interplay between the global structure and
the curvature
              (which measures the bending) of a given space. The major models of spaces 
in
              this study are Riemannian manifolds and Kaehler manifolds. This field is of
              importance
not only to many branches of mathematics, but also to other
              sciences and engineering such 
as physics. A well known example is the use of
              Riemannian geometry in Einstein's theory of
 the general relativity. Another
              example is that the modern control theory uses almost 
exclusively tools
              developed in differential geometry. Within the field of differential
              
geometry, the study of nonpositively curved spaces and the rigidity
              phenomenon often 
associated with such spaces has been on the center stage
              since early 70's, after the 
discovery of Mostow and Margulis. It has drawn
              much attention in 80's and 90's from the 
mathematical world. The proposer and
              others are trying to investigate these topics for 
Kaehler manifolds, which
              are  Riemannian manifolds with a special type of structure. 
The recent
              development in string theory suggests that the universe is the ten dimensional
              
product space of the usual (four dimensional) space time and a compact six
              dimensional
cross section which should be a special kind of Kaehler manifold
              (the so-called Calabi-Yau 
spaces). Besides reasons and existing/potential
              application outside mathematics, Kaehler 
geometry has become more of more
              important within many fields of pure and 
applied mathematics.   

