              This project involves the application of solid state magnetic resonance
              techniques to address current questions related to competing ground states in
              selected correlated electron systems. The approach is based on the examination
              of several materials where antiferromagnetism competes with a paramagnetic
              Fermi Liquid phase (and possibly superconductivity) or a Spin-Peierls phase.
              The materials under study are from two families: heavy fermion and organic
              superconductors.  They are characterized by very different microscopic physics.
               The goal of the project is to identify common trends in the physical
              properties of these materials, as well as to explore the physical properties of
              novel phases.  Particular attention is paid to the vicinity of discontinuous
              and continuous quantum phase transitions, where the qualitative and
              quantitative effects resulting from varying the amount of disorder is examined.
               Pressure is the predominate means used to tune the ground state of the systems
              in question.  The project trains two graduate students in the course of
              measurement design and execution.  A course in magnetic resonance for the
              graduate level is planned for the 2002-2003 academic year. Smaller technical
              projects, both specific to particular experiments and for general laboratory
              improvements, are assigned to undergraduates.

In a number of materials of
              current interest, the electrons behave in a correlated manner.  The electrical
              behavior, or state, of the material depends upon which interaction involving
              the electrons dominates.  Some of the materials in this class have properties
              related to these interactions that are technologically useful, i.e. no
              electrical resistance at relatively high temperatures or a large response in
              the electrical resistance to magnetic fields.  Typically, the state that is
              stabilized is controlled by external parameters such as charge doping, high
              pressure, high magnetic fields, and so on.  In this project, a combination of
              experimental techniques, though primarily solid state magnetic resonance, are
              used to gain an increased understanding of the competing states in correlated
              electron systems.  The emphasis is on the physical properties of novel phases,
              and the effects of disorder on these materials. The systems investigated fall
              into two classes: organic superconductors and heavy fermion materials. Tuning
              is achieved with pressure and magnetic field; disorder is introduced through
              chemical substitution.  The goal is to use controlled disorder in the efforts
              to classify transitions, and also to understand the qualitative, and sometimes
              dramatic, changes in the physical properties induced by the disorder.  The
              project trains two graduate students in the course of measurement design and
              execution. A course in magnetic resonance for the graduate level is planned for
              the 2002-2003 academic year. Smaller technical projects, both specific to
              particular experiments and for general laboratory improvements, are assigned to
              undergraduates.

