              Lempp proposes research in both applied and pure computability
theory.  In the
              former area, Lempp proposes to investigate the
computational complexity of
              models of uncountably categorical
first-order theories, and of Boolean
              algebras. He also propose to
study the proof-theoretic strength of
              combinatorial statements,
esp. variants of Ramsey's Theorem, in order to find
              new
proof-theoretic systems of weak second-order arithmetic. In the
latter,
              i.e., in pure computability theory, Lempp plans to reach
a better
              understanding of three important degree structures, the
computably enumerable
              Turing degrees, the enumeration degrees of
the Sigma^0_2-sets, and the Turing
              degrees of differences of
computably enumerable sets, by investigating their
              finite
substructures, in particular the embeddability of finite lattices
and
              extensions of embeddings of partial orders into these
              degree
structures.

Computability theory is the study of the theoretical
              limitations
of computation by machines, irrespective of limitations of
              bounds
on memory space or run time. It is thus in some sense the
theoretical
              cousin of complexity theory, an area of computer
science studying
              computability within given time or memory space
bounds. Typical results in
              computability theory show that certain
mathematical problems cannot be solved
              by any computer, no matter
how fast or how large. Up until the late 19th
              century,
mathematics was essentially algorithmic: If you solved a
              problem,
you could also give an effective procedure to find a
solution.
              However, in the late 19th century, it turned out that
many mathematical proofs
              could be done more abstractly and more
elegantly, at the expense of
              effectiveness. Suspicions about this
approach came to the front in the 1930's
              with the first
undecidability results, showing that this abstraction often
              led
to "non-algorithmic solutions". Lempp's research focuses on the
analysis
              of unsolvable problems, mainly in algebra and
combinatorics. Techniques and
              results in this area are often not
only of great theoretical interest, but
              also have practical
applications in computer science.

