              
0138486
Harbor

Major limitations in the successful use of ice sheet models
              for climate research arise from limited field data for model calibration. This
              may result in unrealistic simulations of ice sheet inception, growth, and
              decay, and uncertainties in reconstructing ice sheet basal boundary conditions
              and surface profiles.  For example, trimlines and weathering differences have
              been interpreted as indicators of former ice sheet height in some locations,
              while mapping and cosmogenic nuclide-based assessment of glacial erosion
              patterns in Scandinavia suggest that such features in some cases represent
              internal thermal boundaries between wet-(warm) based erosive ice and dry-(cold)
              based non-erosive ice.  Such radical differences in interpretation have
              profound impacts on reconstructed ice sheet thickness, dynamics, and extent,
              and paleoclimates interpretations derived from ice sheet reconstructions. The
              fact that uneroded areas have been identified in Scandinavia  within the known
              limits of multiple ice sheet overriding events indicates that these uneroded
              areas must have survived as non-eroding (presumably frozen-bed) patches
              throughout ice sheet inception, growth, and decay. This observation represents
              a significant new constraint on basal thermal conditions for ice sheet models
              and is indicative of the types of constraints that field-based geomorphology
              and glacial geology can provide to enhance ice sheet modeling efforts.  Over
              the past three years the Principal Investigator Arjen Stroeven, Stockholm
              University, and Derek Fabel, Australian National University, have worked
              collaboratively with support from National Science Foundation (NSF) and Swedish
              NSF to examine deglaciation chronology and patterns of erosion and landscape
              preservation in the northern Swedish mountains, the core area of the
              Fennoscandian Ice Sheet (FIS).  The  results provide the groundwork for
              proposing the next phase of this work, in which they will reconstruct FIS
              thickness, extent, and dynamics (including total ice volume-induced sea level
              change) over critical periods of the last glacial cycle (Marine Isotope Stage
              [MIS] 5d or 5b, inception phase; MIS 2, Last Glacial Maximum (LGM)  phase, and;
              MIS 1, deglaciation phase). The paleotopography (height) of the FIS through a
              glacial cycle will be simulated using a state-of-the-art thermomechanical
              numerical ice sheet model, with key boundary conditions constrained both by
              cosmogenic nuclide-based reconstructions of subglacial conditions, and by an
              isostatic model. The team for this work has been expanded to include Alun
              Hubbard, University of Edinburgh, Kurt Lambeck, Australian National University,
              and  Jens-Ove Naslund, Stockholm University, in the areas of glaciological and
              isostatic modeling.  New reconstructions will likely have wide significance,
              both to European ice sheet and paleoclimate reconstructions and evaluations of
              evidence of sea level low-stands (proxy for total land-based ice on earth) and
              also in encouraging re-evaluation of the dynamics of inception, growth, and
              decay of other major ice sheets worldwide.


