              This project integrates recent search developments in ad hoc netorks into
              mainstream computer science and electrical engineering curricula.  It explores
              students to challenges posed by this emerging class of systems, improving
              studets' exposure to future infrastructures by developming real world ad hoc
              networking test-beds and deployment platforms, and permits educators at other
              U.S. institutions to do the same by sharing the system infrastructure and
              educational materils developed for this project.  Specifically, the project
              transforms several undergraduate and graduate level courses in computer systems
              to address the challenges posed by wirless, mobile and embedded networks of
              computers that form transient alliances in ad hoc networks.  This project
              transforms classes in networking, databases, operations systems, adaptive
              systems to integrate pervaive, ubiquitous, ad hoc networking and sensor
              networks.  A three-tiered approach benefits both current classsroom
              instructions as well as ongoing research on ad hoc network, and involves: 1)
              The development of software and courseware infrastructure necessary to build,
              use and evaluate system services for ad hoc networkss in a classroom setting.
              2) Deployment of the critical mass of equipment to field a large, physical
              test-bed.  This network consists of mobile computers, ranging form sensors and
              pocket-sized information appliance through hand-helds to laptops.  Equipped
              with a wireless networking card, and multi-purpose sensors such as camera,
              these machine provide a real physical test-bed on which system services are
              evaluated for ad hoc networks. 3) Collection of information from the deployed
              test-bed on application communication pattersn, mobility models, and observed
              link characteristics.  This information can be used to carry out
              better-informed simulations of ad hoc networks.  This grant impacts computer
              challenges the nation is facing, it results in innovative research on operating
              systems, database and telecommunications, and it generates course materials and
              define infrastructure that will allow the project to be repeated elsewhere in
              the country
