              EIA-0218479
Ulinski, Philip S
Univ. of  Chicago

CRCNS: Collaborative
              Research :  How is Information Coded in Turtle Visual Cortex ?

Visual
              stimuli evoke a propagating wave of activity in the visual cortex of freshwater
              turtles.  Preliminary work suggested that information about the position of
              stimuli in visual space is coded in the spatiotemporal dynamics of these waves.
               Effectively, there may be a map of visual space to the dynamics of the visual
              cortex.  This hypothesis is being examined in a collaborative effort involving
              three laboratories.  David Senseman in San Antonio is using voltage sensitive
              dye methods to record the waves produced by presenting spots of light at 35
              spots on the retina.  These studies will characterize the features of the map
              based on repeated presentations of stimuli at 35 loci.  Philip Ulinski in
              Chicago is developing a  large-scale model of the visual pathway of turtles. 
              Models of individual retinal ganglion cells that combine both classic
              filter-based approaches to modeling ganglion cells, with  compartmental
              modeling of ganglion cells are being constructed.  They are being used to
              construct 35 patches of a model retina that match the 35 loci.  Physiological
              studies of the biophysics of neurons in the lateral geniculate complex of
              turtles are being carried out.  They are used to develop a model of the lateral
              geniculate complex, which is the last step in modeling the
              retino-geniculate-cortical pathway.  Bijoy Ghosh in St. Louis is developing
              refined estimation techniques that allow the position of a visual stimulus to
              be estimated from the dynamics of the cortical waves.  This work is providing
              the mathematical framework needed to characterize a potential map of visual
              space to the dynamics of the wave.  This work is significant because it is
              characterizing a novel method of coding information in visual cortex that may
              apply to higher order cortical areas in mammals, as well as turtles.
