              Earth Systems Science (40) 
Computers are an increasingly important tool in the
              Earth Sciences and are used for research in fields such as paleoclimatology,
              seismology, and hydrogeology. Many students now entering graduate school,
              embarking on consulting careers, or obtaining jobs with state and federal
              governments are called upon to use computers to model complex systems or to
              acquire and handle digital datasets. Others are required to critically evaluate
              modeling projects reported in the geological literature. Despite these trends,
              undergraduate geology programs have been slow to initiate courses that develop
              skills in these emerging areas of study and employment. Furthermore, computer
              science offerings are not geared toward students in the Earth Sciences. This
              project is developing a course within the geology curriculum to meet the need
              for instruction in modeling in the earth sciences at the undergraduate level.
              

This course is making use of the reservoir/flux modeling software
              STELLA(r), developed by High Performance Systems, Inc., to teach the
              fundamentals of systems thinking and model construction, with application to a
              wide variety of geological problems. At the same time, students are learning
              how to program in the FORTRAN 90 computer language and are learning the basics
              of the Linux/Unix operating system. The project is adapting modeling which has
              been done within a number of different research contexts. The course differs
              from computer methods courses developed by other university geology departments
              in that it is teaching students computer skills by focusing on computer
              modeling of geological and environmental problems. 

The final products of
              this project will include a detailed package of course notes, exercises, and
              debugged STELLA(r) and FORTRAN programs available free of charge to faculty
              interested in using these exercises in their courses. Colleagues at other
              institutions will be made aware of the availability of these exercises through
              an article in the Journal of Geoscience Education and through presentations at
              the annual Geological Society of America and/or Council on Undergraduate
              Research meetings.

