              The Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) is a longitudinal study since 1968 of
              a representative sample of U.S. individuals and the family units in which they
              reside. The study's long-term span, innovative genealogical design, and
              comprehensive content have been critical to the fundamental understanding of a
              wide variety of key social science issues, including those involving life
              course effects. With thirty-plus years of data on the same families, the PSID
              can justly be considered a cornerstone of the infrastructure support for
              empirically based social science research.  Through its long-term measures of
              economic and social well being, and based on its representative sample of U.S.
              families, the study has compelled both researchers and policy makers to
              confront and learn from the dynamism inherent in economic processes.

The
              enormous usefulness of decades of data on the same families has made the PSID
              one of the most widely used social science data sets in the world. The project
              currently delivers 6,500 customized data sets a year to researchers via its
              Internet Data Center. Since 1968, over 2,000 journal articles, books and
              chapters, dissertations and other works have been based on PSID data. And the
              study has been named one of the National Science Foundation's `Nifty Fifty'
              most notable research efforts.

The 1997-2001 funding cycle represented a
              major transition period for the PSID, in which the project implemented several
              important changes. In response to concern about dramatic growth in sample size,
              maintenance of representativeness, and fiscal constraints at the federal level,
              the project added a refresher sample of post-1968 immigrants and suspended a
              number of families from the original Census Bureau oversample of low-income
              families. Most importantly, the study moved to a bi-ennial data collection
              schedule, with consequent changes to the instrument in order to collect
              interwave information on key variables. All of these changes returned the study
              to a "steady state" that maintains a sample of about the same size, attains
              national representation inclusive of new entrants, and has proved less costly
              to run-while maintaining the study's traditionally high data quality.  In
              addition, to facilitate greater use of the data set, content was expanded in
              six major areas (intergenerational studies; savings and consumption; technology
              and capital formation; health and aging; child development; and
              immigration).

In the 2002-2006 funding cycle, the PSID stabilizes and
              maintains this new state of the study. In contrast to the pre-1997 state, the
              study's interview periodicity is now longer and its content is greatly
              expanded. The project focuses on improving the measures in areas affected by
              the longer periodicity, assessing the research value of the newly added content
              domains, and improving the processing and delivery of the data that is
              collected. Specifically, the project:

1.		Expands content to facilitate
              investigation of current research questions and policy issues;
2.	Continues
              the 1997-2001 cycle's data collection design changes, including biennial
              interviewing, with the associated cost reductions and productivity
              increases;
3.	Integrates event history calendar methodology into the Computer
              Assisted Telephone Interview (CATI) application to ensure data quality despite
              the greater time between interviews;
4.		Maintains and improves several new
              systems for data editing, processing, and documentation;
5.	Ensures that the
              study is the "Gold Standard" for income information through redesign of the
              CATI data collection instrument based on an Income and Wages Project;
              and
6.		Improves and expedite data delivery through enhancements of the PSID
              web site Data Center.

The renewal permits the PSID to perfect and assess the
              research value of the wider content areas and further facilitate usage of the
              study's data through improved data collection and processing. These efforts
              strongly reinforce the infrastructure value of the study in terms of the range
              of topics that can be addressed with the data and the ease of use for an
              ever-broadening range of social science scholars.


