              Project PRISM promotes the success and persistence of girls and ethnic minority
              students, particularly Native American students, through sustainable reform
              focusing on gender and cultural issues in secondary math and science classrooms
              and a university course for education students. The project is initiating
              changes that will increase the recruitment of women and ethnic minority
              practitioners into the SMET workforce. The target populations include
              pre-service teachers at Washington State University (WSU) and Lewis-Clark State
              College (LCSC), in-service teachers, counselors, and administrators from eight
              school districts, five of which serve the Colville Confederated Tribes (CCT),
              and CCT secondary students.

This collaborative demonstration project uses a
              powerful, multi-faceted approach to achieve changes in teaching and curriculum
              and in student success. The project promotes an increased secondary teacher and
              counselor awareness of gender and cultural issues that affect the learning and
              persistence of students, particularly girls and Native American students, in
              science, math, engineering and technology (SMET) classrooms. It likewise
              stimulates commitment to inclusive teaching and curricula and facilitates
              ongoing reform.

Teachers and counselors participate in interactive
              in-service development opportunities on gender, culture, and education and a
              summer institute focused on the process of SMET classroom and curriculum
              reform. Participants in faculty development components are supported in their
              revision and reform efforts by faculty learning communities. A university
              course for pre- and in-service teachers introduces students to issues of
              gender, culture, and science as well as foster increased computer skills and
              SMET teaching abilities. 

All faculty development components are designed
              and developed by teams of secondary and university faculty in cooperation with
              Colville Confederated Tribes (CCT) personnel and a CCT Advisory Council.


              Cultural awareness and appreciation events are ongoing at the schools serving
              CCT students. Through field trips, hands-on projects, community service
              projects, and career planning, CCT students are developing an increased
              awareness of and interest in careers, especially SMET careers, and increased
              persistence in the education necessary to succeed in those careers.

Local
              leadership for and commitment to the project efforts are being developed, so
              that project components will be sustained after the life of the grant. Manuals
              detailing the faculty in-service workshops and the summer institute teaching
              and curriculum reform process will be produced and disseminated.

The project
              is yielding important information on the efficacy of these intervention
              strategies incorporating both gender and cultural issues. In particular, it
              adds information to the knowledge base on the success of these strategies with
              Native American students, and especially Native American girls.

