              
The objective of this proof-of-concept project is to develop a software
              virtual laboratory tool that is based on emerging learning theories and
              effective pedagogy. The tool may be of use by engineering students in
              engineering disciplines to enhance their understanding of engineering concepts,
              analysis methods, and problem solving procedures that are used in material
              science and engineering courses and laboratories. All of the normal laboratory
              operations and functions such as following procedures, using equipment,
              following safety rules, making measurements, and performing analysis of data
              are performed in a virtual laboratory environment. The software development
              approach is focused on the NSF theme of integrating technology into education
              using existing software technology, digital video and still photography
              techniques, simulation, and a logical and structured approach to the
              presentation of materials laboratory tasks and objectives. A decision tree
              approach is incorporated at various levels of the virtual experiments to allow
              the user to make decisions (correct or incorrect), observe the results of the
              decision, and perform the experiment in an iterative process. 

The software
              tool to serves as a virtual experience that may be used in conjunction with a
              lecture course that does not have a laboratory element, or as a preparation
              tool for an existing laboratory course. The main objective of the virtual
              experience is to facilitate a self-paced discovery environment in which the
              user can verify physical concepts and learn laboratory procedures through both
              correct and incorrect decisions and answers. From previous work the
              investigators have developed one virtual experiment on metallography techniques
              that requires a memory space of approximately 200 Megabytes. In this project,
              four additional virtual experiments will be developed based on important
              concepts in materials science and engineering. (The storage requirements for
              these experiments should also be about 200 Megabytes each.) The software tool
              will be evaluated for its effectiveness in meeting learning objectives for a
              diverse group of students including women and members of underrepresented
              groups at Texas Tech University, Tuskegee University, and Drexel University. 
              The software is to be disseminated in national and international markets, as an
              educational supplement accompanying a materials science textbook through
              McGraw-Hill publishing company.

