              0001153
Johnson

This project is a one-year exploratory study needed to
              examine the feasibility of Cr isotope measurements as indicators of Cr(VI)
              reduction and Cr contamination sources.  Cr is a common groundwater contaminant
              because of its use in electroplating and other industrial processes.  The
              complex redox chemistry of Cr determines its mobility and bioavailability, and
              in most Cr-contaminanted sites, Cr(VI) reduction is an important natural
              attenuation mechanism.  Cr is also of interest in oceanographic and
              sedimentological studies, as both Cr(VI) and Cr(III) are present in ocean and
              estuarine water, and Cr concentration and speciation data hold information
              about redox conditions.

Stable isotope ratios of nitrogen and sulfur have
              proven useful in tracking reduction of nitrate and sulfate to lower oxidation
              states, and in identifying sources of nitrate and sulfate in groundwater.  This
              project is an initial step toward developing a similar capability for Cr
              isotopes.  For nitrogen and sulfur, lighter isotopes are reduced
              preferentially, and thus isotope ratio shifts in nature provide evidence that
              reduction reactions are occurring, and indicate the degree of reduction.  It is
              likely that in chromate reduction,  52Cr will be reduced preferentially
              relative to 53Cr, and observed shifts in  53Cr/52Cr ratio of the Cr in
              groundwater would indicate Cr(VI) reduction.  Cr isotopes are thus promising as
              a new geochemical toll, but the isotopic fractionations must be observed in
              controlled experiments before extensive research can be undertaken.

The
              proposed study will measure the size of this kinetic isotope effect and assess
              the potential for Cr isotope applications.  Three experiments are planned, in
              which Cr(VI) reduction will occur in simple solutions, on mineral surfaces, and
              in sediment slurries.  Also, Cr isotope ratio variations in groundwater from
              one field site will be examined in order to observe this kinetic isotope effect
              in nature and establish the practical measurement precision.

This research
              has potential impacts in gaining an understanding of Cr isotope systematic that
              may then be used in further studies applied to groundwater, surface water,
              oceanographic, and sedimentological studies.  Cr isotopes may ultimately be a
              practical tool for the use in understanding Cr sources and transport at
              contaminanted sites.  This project is designed to be part of a Ph.D.
              dissertation for a graduate student, to be combined with similar work on Se
              isotopes that is in progress.

