              0079432
Painter
This grant will help develop a new instrument for polymer
              characterization that will combine dielectric relaxation and two-dimensional
              (2D) infrared spectroscopic measurements.  Dielectric relaxation measurements
              have been used for many years as a probe of the dynamics of polymer chains,
              through the detection of the transitions and relaxations that are a result of
              various types of coupled or local motions.  Infrared spectroscopy provides a
              probe of molecular level structure and, in certain systems, intermolecular
              interactions.  Clearly, a technique (or, more accurately, a hybrid-technique)
              that can measure the temperature and frequency range of various transitions and
              relaxations, while simultaneously probing the functional groups involved and
              the degree to which their motions are coupled, would be an extremely powerful
              analytical tool.  Essentially, we will use a dielectric spectrometer to provide
              an oscillating electric field to modulate the dipoles of a sample.  This
              modulation can be probed by infrared spectroscopy.  Applying standard methods
              of cross-correlation analysis, the resulting in-phase and out-of-phase signals
              can be used to construct two dimensional plots, which, amongst other things,
              allow an identification of the functional groups whose motions are coupled.  By
              varying the oscillatory frequency applied to the sample and its temperature,
              the molecular basis of the relaxations and transitions that occur in polymer
              (and other) materials can be investigated, providing a new and powerful probe
              of structure and dynamics.  The new instrument will be initially applied to the
              range of problems facing our research groups, including the identification of
              the functional groups involved in specific interactions in polymer blends, the
              dynamics of functional groups and chain segments in such mixtures, the
              relaxation phenomena that occur in crystallizable miscible blends, relaxations
              in polymer liquid crystals and polymer dispersed liquid crystals, and so
              on.
%%%
When a polymer chain is subjected to some external force, such as
              stretching or other types of mechanical deformation, the chains take time to
              adjust or "relax" to a new conformation.  Relaxation processes in polymers are
              complex and depend upon factors such as the flexibility of the individual
              chains in a sample and how much different chains are tangled up with one
              another.  Relaxation processes have a profound effect on the properties of
              polymers and hence their uses, ranging from applications in everyday life to
              their incorporation into advanced devices.  An understanding of the molecular
              mechanisms involved in such relaxations is therefore important in not only
              understanding the behaviour of polymers presently in use, but designing
              materials for new applications.  Unfortunately, this information is not easily
              obtained, as certain techniques can measure relaxation processes, but give no
              information on the molecular mechanisms involved, while others probe the
              molecules themselves, but give no information on relaxations.
To solve this
              problem we are proposing to build a new hybrid instrument that will
              simultaneously probe molecular relaxations (or polymer dynamics) and molecular
              level structure.  Dielectric spectroscopy and infrared spectroscopy,
              respectively, are the two techniques that will be combined and the new
              instrument will be called a 2D-FTIR/Dielectric Spectrometer.  The two
              techniques are both standard tools for analysis and our task is to construct a
              sample cell that will allow these to work together.
***

