              0211733
Wakimoto

Fertilization begins with the initial contact of the sperm
              and the egg and ends with the joining of the paternal and maternal chromosomes
              in the embryo.  The normal development of all sexually reproducing organisms
              requires the exquisite coordination of the activities of the sperm and egg
              during fertilization.  Current knowledge of the mechanisms underlying
              fertilization has been obtained largely from morphological and biochemical
              studies of marine invertebrates and mammals. These studies have led to the
              discovery of a handful of molecules with confirmed roles in sperm-egg
              interactions in these organisms.  The aim of the proposed project is to exploit
              advantages of a genetic system to identify functionally important fertilization
              molecules and pathways.  A collection of male sterile lines of Drosophila
              melanogaster will be used to identify molecules expressed in sperm and
              essential for successful fertilization.  Mutations that disrupt the sperm-egg
              binding or sperm activation after entry into the egg will be the focus of more
              extensive phenotypic and genetic mapping studies.  These studies will define
              the types of genes that disrupt fertilization and their specificity during
              development.The proposed project will also involve the continued
              characterization two members of the "earliest developmental arrest" class of
              paternal effect genes.  Mutations sneaky and space needle produce identical
              paternal effect defects, with mutant sperm failing to undergo the changes
              associated with activation after entry into the egg.  The function of the
              Sneaky protein, a member of a newly discovered class of plasma membrane
              proteins, will be studied by localizing the wild type, tagged and mutated
              versions of the protein fusions.  The effects of other paternal effect
              mutations, including space needle, on Sneaky function and localization will be
              analyzed to identify interacting molecules.  Genetic and molecular mapping
              studies of the space needle gene will be performed to identify the gene and
              begin studies the function of its protein product.  These studies work toward
              developing Drosophila into a powerful experimental system to investigate
              sperm-egg interactions.  The results should be informative for assessing the
              degree to which the molecular pathways of fertilization are conserved among
              animals and used to mediate other cell-cell interactions during development.  
              

The overall aim of the proposed research is to understand the molecular
              mechanisms of sperm-egg interactions during fertilization.  Dr. Wakimoto's
              strategy takes advantage of a collection of mutant strains of Drosophila in
              which males produce motile sperm that fail in the fertilization response. 
              These mutants will be used to identify the molecular pathways that lead to
              successful sperm-egg binding and sperm activation. 

1) To assess the number
              and types of mutants that are defective in sperm-egg interactions, they will:

                  a) complete the phenotypic classification of putative fertilization
              defective and paternal effect mutants,  
     b) determine the number of genes
              represented by the mutations through genetic complementation analysis         
              and recombination mapping,.
2) To determine the molecular function of two
              genes, sneaky (snky) and space needle (spnl),  which are             required
              for sperm activation after entry into the egg, they will:
     a) define the
              subcellular localization and the functional domains of the Sneaky protein, the
              best                            characterized member of this class,
     b)
              assay the effects of another snky-like mutation, space needle (spnl) on the
              localization, modification              and function of the Sneaky protein,
  
                 c) complete the phenotypic characterization and mapping of spnl mutations
              toward identifying its protein           product.



