              The objective of this project is to gather farm-level time-series data in Ouro
              Preto do Oeste, Rondonia, Brazil. These data will be used to investigate the
              land-use choices of small-scale farmers in the Brazilian Amazon and to assess
              how these choices impact tropical deforestation in the region. This project is
              designed to be the second stage of in situ data collection initiated in
              September 1996. During the first stage 196 farmers were interviewed. The survey
              questions were designed to assess past and current government policy concerning
              agricultural practices in the Amazon as well as to investigate individual
              land-use decisions in Rondonia and their implications on deforestation.
              Further, the survey sought to determine if sustainable farming techniques were
              adopted, which farmers adopted them, and the determinants of adoption. In the
              second stage of the project, a panel data set will be initiated through
              continuing interviews with these same Rondonia farmers. The project is designed
              to examine how deforestation is influenced by farmers who live in the region
              and the impact of choosing between sustainable and nonsustainable agricultural
              techniques.

It is necessary to collect time-series panel data to properly
              examine deforestation trends comprehensively and to evaluate current and future
              policy options. This research is important and unique because microeconomic
              time-series panel data are rarely found in the literature concerning developing
              countries, especially those data collected at individual households. The
              collection and analysis of these data will therefore make a considerable
              contribution to the economic and environmental literature on deforestation (and
              related environmental issues) that face developing nations and may serve to
              guide future policy adoption in these tropical environments.

The major
              source of deforestation in Rondonia, Brazil is the use of slash-and-burn
              agriculture by small-scale farmers. It is well documented that the adoption of
              sustainable methods of agriculture can reduce deforestation drastically if
              utilized by a majority of the farmers. Unfortunately, results from the first
              stage of the analysis found that only a few farmers used sustainable
              agriculture in 1996-1997 in Ouro Preto do Oeste (as well as many other
              settlements in the Brazilian Amazon). However, the first stage of the analysis
              also indicated that, it is expected that more farmers are likely to adopt
              sustainable agriculture as the benefits of the farming method are shown.
              Imperfect information appeared to be one of the main deterrents to the adoption
              of sustainable agriculture in Ouro Preto do Oeste. On the positive side, local
              farmer organizations and cooperatives were found to play an important role in
              the decision to adopt sustainable techniques. These results suggest that
              national and regional policies, that provide information about sustainable
              agriculture and support local farm organizations, can greatly increase the
              diffusion of sustainable agriculture in Ouro Preto do Oeste and similar
              settlements in the Amazon. To examine the continued adoption of sustainable
              agriculture and the relation between farming techniques and deforestation over
              time, further data are required. Time-series panel data will provide a
              framework to trace national and regional policies impacting farmers' land-use
              decisions and therefore offer insight into the rate of and reasons for
              deforestation in this region.

