              The goals of this study are: 1) to infer the phylogeny, or set of genealogical
              relationships, of Hibbertia using chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequences; 2) to
              document the pattern of floral development using Scanning Electron Microscopy
              for selected Hibbertia species; 3) compare the sequences of developmental
              events between species in the context of a relativistic time course, so that
              developmental events may be compared without the assumption that similar
              appearing stages in the of different species represent units for direct
              comparison. The combination of data on the pattern formation and relative
              timing of organ development will then be analyzed in a phylogenetic context, so
              that hypotheses of how relative changes in the timing of developmental events
              have affected mature floral form may be explicitly tested.  Preliminary data
              suggests that in one major group of Hibbertia, the timing of the origination of
              the carpels (female floral organs) has been advanced, relative to the
              initiation of stamens (male, pollen-producing floral organs), so that the
              carpels take up space on the lower half the floral meristem (aggregation of
              undifferentiated, embryonic cells) that in other taxa produce stamens.  The
              result of relative timing shift is the transition of a radially symmetric
              patterning of stamens around the flower, to a bilaterally symmetric arrangement
              of stamens formed exclusively on the top half of the flower.  This study will
              be among the first to elucidate the evolutionary processes behind differences
              in floral morphology at the level of the floral groundplan.


The study of
              floral morphological diversity stands as one of the principal foci of botanical
              research.  While the implications of this field for flowering plant
              classification have been the most long-standing and far-reaching, the study of
              floral evolution impacts economically important disciplines such as
              horticulture and plant breeding.   A group with particularly great potential to
              further our understanding of the evolution of floral form is Hibbertia (family
              Dilleniaceae), a genus of ca. 150 species distributed in Australia, New
              Caledonia, and Madagascar.  What makes Hibbertia such an ideal candidate for
              such a study is, as put forth by the great evolutionary botanist G. L. Stebbins
              (1974), that "[t]here is probably no other genus of angiosperms that exhibits
              such a high degree of variation in those characteristics that are often
              regarded as 'fundamental' and are usually associated with the separation of
              genera or even higher categories."


