              Under the direction of Dr. Thomas Dillehay, Mr. James White will collect data
              for his doctoral dissertation. He will conduct archaeological research in a 50
              km. square region in the modern desert North of Monterey Mexico. Located just
              South of the Rio Grande river on the western edge of the Sierra Madre Oriental
              this region has received almost no professional archaeological attention. The
              goal of the research is to locate sites which date to the early human
              occupation of the New World - around and slightly before 10,000 years ago - and
              on this basis reconstruct subsistence and settlement adaptations. The advantage
              of the selected region lies in its wealth of closely juxtaposed micro-zones
              which provide a wide range of spatially discrete resources. Sites, unlike most
              US counterparts have not been subjected to surface collecting and dry desertic
              conditions, likely dating to the last 7,000 years, are conducive to the
              preservation of fragile faunal and floral remains. The research will proceed in
              three stages. The entire 50 km area will be surveyed on foot and all surface
              materials noted and mapped. On this basis a sample will be selected for limited
              excavation and the material obtained will be analyzed. With these data in hand,
              more extensive excavation will be undertaken at the most promising sites. A
              geologist will place the material into relevant geomorphological context,
              radiocarbon dates will provide absolute ages and a series of specialist
              analyses will provide faunal, floral and pollen
              identifications.

Archaeological evidence demonstrates that by 10,000 years
              ago humans had spread across the Americas and their presence is well documented
              in both continents. Based on the association between carefully worked stone
              lance points and the remains of giant buffalo, mammoth and mastodon it is clear
              that humans utilized these food resources. However there is little agreement on
              whether these Paleo-Indian peoples were primarily specialized large game
              hunters, whether they pursued a more generalized subsistence strategy and
              incorporated large game as only one element of a broader diet or whether some
              groups adopted one approach and other groups another. Mr. White correctly
              argues that this question can only be addressed effectively through intensive
              region-specific studies in which comparison of multiple sites from the same
              time period permits the reconstruction of settlement and subsistence patterns.
              He has selected an excellent area for such research.

This project is
              important for several reasons. It will shed light on a little known region of
              the Americas and provide data of interest to many archaeologists. It will
              provide insight into the adaptations of early Native Americans and also assist
              in training a promising young archaeologist.

