              Under the direction of Dr. Richard M. Leventhal, Andrew Kindon will collect data
              for his doctoral dissertation. He will continue his participation in the Maya
              Mountains Archaeological Project (MMAP), a multidisciplinary scientific
              research project based in southern Belize, Central America combining the
              efforts of archaeologists, geologists, and biologists.  Since 1996, the MMAP
              has focused its attention on two sizable sites in the Upper Bladen River
              drainage of the Maya Mountains called Ek Xux and Muklebal Tzul.  These sites
              include well-developed central core areas with large mounds surrounded by
              extensive settlement in the form of smaller residential mounds and plazuela
              groups.  Evidence indicates that the sites were inhabited during the Classic
              period, about 300 AD - 900 AD.

These sites are particularly significant
              because, while they are located only 3 kilometers away from each other,
              preliminary evidence suggests that there are major differences between them. 
              Burial patterns at the sites differed markedly, with the residents of Ek Xux
              burying their dead in rock shelters surrounding the site and the residents of
              Muklebal Tzul burying their dead in tombs within their house platforms.  In
              addition, initial survey work carried out by Kindon from 1998-2000 showed
              significant differences in the settlement patterns of the communities.  It has
              been speculated that these differences are due to differences in the nature of
              social organization and control at the two sites.  However, issues of
              contemporaneity and differential developmental stages are also very important,
              and the temporal relationship between the two sites must be
              clarified.

Kindon's dissertation research will investigate the prehispanic
              settlement systems of both Ek Xux and Muklebal Tzul.  Intensive study of
              settlement distribution combined with architectural, artifact, and carbon
              analysis will address three primary research goals: 1. the clarification of
              temporal relationships between the two sites; 2. the identification of regional
              and local patterns of settlement organization and the exploration of the way
              these settlement patterns relate to levels of social organization and control;
              3. the evaluation of the degree to which kin-based and centralized elite social
              organization and power were elaborated within the communities, as well as the
              amount of variability that existed at both a regional and local level in terms
              of social organization and control.

Kindon's work has the potential to make
              several important contributions to current anthropological and archaeological
              theory.  First and foremost, the research will increase current understanding
              of the nature of social power, especially as it relates to the emergence and
              functioning of complex polities.  With relatively simple technology prehistoric
              Mayans were able to incorporate large numbers of individuals into functioning
              social entities and Mr. Kindon's research will shed light on the mechanisms
              involved. The project will also contribute to training a promising young
              scientist.


