              Under the direction of Dr. Henry Wright MS Zoe Crossland will collect data for
              her doctoral dissertation. Building on her past research in the area she will
              conduct archaeological survey and excavation in the Andrantsay region in the
              central highlands of Madagascar. The area provides rich agricultural land for
              wet rice cultivation and was the locus of an historically documented 'kingdom'
              observed by early European visitors at the end of the 18th century. Although
              they occurred relatively late in Madagascar, the processes which led to the
              rise of early states in other parts of the world also occurred on this island.
              The kingdom of Andrantsay was one of several which developed in Madagascar at
              approximately the same time and it was eventually incorporated, in the early
              19th century into the Merina state. While written documents provide some detail
              about the strategies used by the Merina to subjugate this outlying region, they
              reflect a conqueror's perspective and require on the ground substantiation and
              (likely) revision. MS Crossland will examine the processes which led first to
              the development of the Andrantsay kingdom and then the changes which occurred
              during its incorporation. She will focus on shifts in the organization of
              settlement and transformations in mortuary architecture as a hierarchically
              structured and centralized polity developed. She will compare these patterns of
              landscape occupation and use with later changes. The research includes two
              components. The first involves a systematic surface survey of archaeological
              remains which consist mostly of ceramics. The results should provide insight
              into changes in population distribution and settlement pattern. Secondly MS
              Crossland will conduct a series of small scale excavations at selected sites.
              Test trenches will be placed at a minimum of 6 sites with the goal of refining
              ceramic chronology and providing absolute dates.

Archaeologists wish to
              understand the processes which led over millennia to increasing social
              complexity and culminated in the rise of states and empires. Normally
              researchers focus their effort on capitals which represented the apex of the
              hierarchical structure. MS Crossland's study is unusual because it looks at a
              periphery and examines state formation within a broader regional perspective,
              working from the assumption that a regional scale of analysis is most suitable.
              In comparison to other aspects of state formation, relatively little has been
              written about polities at the edges of an emergent state. MS Crossland's
              research will provide a useful counterbalance. It will also assist in training
              a promising young scientist.

