              This project will involve chemical analyses of carbon (collagen and apatite) and
              nitrogen isotope values from a large series of prehistoric human skeletons,
              prehistoric faunal remains, and modern plants to better understand dietary
              patterns of the inhabitants of northeast Thailand during the pre-state Metal
              Age  (2000 B.C. to A.D. 500).  The project has two central objectives: 1) to
              characterize possible temporal dietary changes and 2) to integrate these data
              with published results on subsistence, health and disease.  The research
              results will provide the first detailed documentation of the paleodietary
              history of mainland Southeast Asia.  Evidence from physical anthropology, and
              archaeological and geoarchaeological excavations suggests environmental,
              cultural, and biological changes occurred during the pre-state Metal Age in
              mainland Southeast Asia.  People in this region modified their landscape to
              provide sufficient, and eventually surplus, food resources.  Technological
              refinements in food procurement likely contributed to social stratification and
              foreign trade.  The research hypotheses suggest dietary intake would have
              changed as a result of human modification of the environment as well as
              cultural technological changes.  Because bone is remodeled over the lifetime of
              the individual and the carbon and nitrogen in bone derives from dietary
              sources, bone chemical composition broadly reflects the type of foods consumed.
               Bone isotope analysis can provide another line of evidence for examining
              dietary patterns and dietary change over time, and will permit greater
              understanding of paleodietary differences in northeast Thailand prior to state
              formation.  Thus, this project will provide a foundation for future
              biogeographical and paleodietary research in this region.  

The proposed
              research has outstanding educational opportunities in both laboratory and field
              data collection and analysis for both the investigators and assistants in
              Thailand and Hawai.  Experience will be gained in physical anthropology and
              stable isotope geoarchaeology by working closely with established researchers
              from diverse fields.  The investigators will learn first hand a spectrum of
              state-of-the-art experimental and analytical methods and instrumentation.


