              As the volume of migration of people from one nation to another has increased
              around the globe, an equally significant facet of global economic transactions
              has become the remittance of funds from those who have emigrated to those who
              have been left behind.  This is especially true in poorer nations, including
              those states whose state-run economies have not performed as well as
              market-based economies in other nations.  This doctoral dissertation research
              project will examine the hypothesis that remittances sent to Cubans from
              relatives abroad play the positive role in Cuba of allowing their recipients to
              maintain an acceptable basic standard of living, thereby enabling them to
              continue to maintain their participation in relatively low-paying professional
              occupations.  Studies of the rise of the informal economy have suggested that
              participation in the informal economy has increased during the time of
              transition from socialist to market economies.  The opportunity to earn more
              money in this sector attracts workers to leave their trained profession to work
              in the informal economy.  Do remittances play an important countervailing role?
               No previous studies have provided data regarding the ways that remittances may
              affect the motivation and actual participation in the informal economy.  The
              project will combine a quantitative survey of 300 households followed by
              intensive in-depth personal interviews and household budgets for 15 households.
               The data will be used to test the links between the receipt of a steady and
              significant flow of remittances and type of employment.

The research will
              provide new insights and information regarding the potential for informal
              activities to draw away professionals from their occupations and lower the use
              of human capital in Cuban society and transitional socialist societies in
              general.  Whereas other studies have argued that increased participation in the
              informal economy has been detrimental to the process of transformation from a
              socialist to a mixed market economy, this study will shed light on what
              motivates individuals to engage in or withdraw from the informal economy and
              where individuals place their primary occupational emphasis.  The research also
              will broaden scholarly contacts with Cuba and facilitate future research in a
              nation that previously has been inaccessible for most U.S. researchers.  As a
              Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement award, this award will provide
              support to enable a promising student to establish a strong independent
              research career.

