              Understanding the severity of past drought events and assessing the linkages of
              these events to conditions in the eastern Pacific is essential for long-term
              water resource planning in California and adjacent portions of the southwestern
              United States.  This doctoral dissertation research project will use the
              remains of aquatic organisms, specifically midge fly larvae, preserved within
              the sediments of small, climatically sensitive Sierran lakes to reconstruct a
              high-resolution record of paleotemperature and paleohydrology for California
              during the late-Quaternary (past 13,000 years).  This research is an expansion
              of an earlier NSF-supported project that assessed how present-day differences
              in air temperature and precipitation, lake water temperature, salinity, depth,
              and surrounding vegetation are reflected in the modern elemental chemistry and
              oxygen isotopic composition of lake waters, and the chironomids (midge flies),
              cladocera (crustaceans), diatoms (unicellular algae), pollen, and stomates
              found in Sierran lake sediments.  Previous work had determined that the modern
              distribution of midges in Sierran lakes is controlled by summer surface
              lake-water temperature, lake depth, elevation, and iron.  The relationship
              between midge fly distributions and surface lake-water temperature also have
              been characterized through the development of a transfer function (mathematical
              formulae that express the value of a specific environmental variable as a
              function of plant or animal species composition data).  This dissertation
              research project will apply the new transfer function to the fossil midge
              assemblages contained within late-Quaternary lake sediment cores, thereby
              enabling a high-resolution reconstruction of paleotemperature for California
              during the late-Quaternary.

Earlier paleoenvironmental research in the
              Sierra Nevada indicates that drought events of greater severity than those
              experienced during the instrumental period (past 100 years) have occurred in
              eastern California during the late-Holocene (last 3,000 years).  Because of the
              fragmentary nature of the existing paleoenvironmental records, however,
              understandings of earlier drought periods is limited.  This research project
              will provide a high-resolution record of the inherent variability of eastern
              California climate during the past 13,000 years.  More specifically, this
              project will use the remains of midge fly larvae preserved in Sierran lake
              sediments to provide a sensitive and detailed history of the climatic changes
              that occurred in the eastern Sierra Nevada, California over the last 13,000
              years.   The results of this work will assist hydrologists,
              paleoclimatologists, oceanographers, and climate modelers in understanding the
              timing, magnitude, and causal mechanisms associated with high frequency climate
              oscillations evident in California during the late-Quaternary.  The expected
              results should assist water resource managers as they attempt to adequately
              plan for future water resource needs.  As a Doctoral Dissertation Research
              Improvement award, this award also will provide support to enable a promising
              student to establish a strong independent research career.

