              This dissertation research project explores the ways in which systems of value
              are constructed within and around technology-based international development
              "digital divide" projects, where discourses and traditions of technology
              innovation, nonprofit fundraising, commercial technology, and international
              development intersect.  A central hypothesis is that IT-oriented nonprofits
              will face a significant challenge as they reconcile these intersections, such
              as that between nonprofit principles (based on altruism and a concern about the
              conditions of disparity) and technoromantic ones (based on inevitable progress,
              often facilitated by commercial capital). The ways in which these
              contradictions are worked out within individual organizations will reflect the
              ways in which participants selectively identify with nonprofit, business, and
              technology traditions as well as the specific generational and historical
              experiences of the participants. Are these new systems of value fundamentally
              different from those of earlier nonprofit projects, and if so, can they be
              understood as expressing an "elective affinity" between new formations of
              capital and technoromantic ideals? (Gerth and Mills 1946, Weber 1958) What is
              it about certain values that encourages actors to perceive them as worthy of
              adoption? The researcher will examine the ways in which individuals within
              these groups understand their work and participation in relation to broader
              projects of development, technology innovation, and global information
              infrastructures. Three nonprofit groups in Massachusetts have been selected for
              a multi-sited study; each represents a particular attitude towards the
              intersection of the fields of development and technology. Geekcorps, which
              sends techie volunteers to assignments in Ghana, is a nonprofit run in the
              spirit of a commercial startup. KITE accepts computer donations and then
              reconfigures them with open source software and redistributes them to
              nonprofits in Africa, bridging the international nonprofit community and the
              Open Source movement. ThinkCycle is a voluntary association of students at MIT
              working with nonprofits overseas to design aninformation architecture that
              allows engineers to work collaboratively with NGOs in the design of development
              solutions; engineers turned nonprofit development workers. In order to access
              both self-conscious and transparent systems of value and meaning, research
              methods will include participant observation, interviews, and textual and
              social network analyses. This study will bring theories of social dramas and
              liminality to bear on the emergent aspect of these organizations, and to the
              contestation of meanings that takes place in the negotiation of values and
              categories. The researcher will apply exchange theory to the analysis of the
              complex, layered web of giving and receiving that takes place around nonprofit
              and development work, and theories of value to make sense of the ways in which
              participants understand the value of technology and of nonprofit work as means
              to further certain ideologies, and as ends in themselves. 
