              Although many catastrophic events like earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and
              tornadoes may be characterized as natural disasters, the amount of devastation
              associated with such events often is as much a product of the people and human
              landscapes where they occur as the natural forces themselves.  This is
              especially true if one tries to consider the risks associated with natural
              hazards.  This doctoral dissertation research project will develop an
              integrative methodology for the analysis of the ecology of urban earthquake
              risks based on the techniques of remote sensing, geographic information systems
              (GIS) and spatial analysis.  The research is guided by a conceptual framework
              that takes a human ecological perspective and suggests the use of the built and
              natural environments as contextual filters to understand social processes
              associated with urban earthquake disasters.  The major thrust of the research
              is oriented toward the exploration of the utility of remote sensing and GIS
              techniques in identifying urban land-cover attributes that are strongly
              associated with high and low levels of social vulnerability to earthquake
              hazards.  The research will test the hypothesis that social vulnerability is
              reflected in the characteristics of the spatial structure of the urban
              neighborhoods that various population groups occupy, such as geographic
              conditions, the form and development of settlements, and structure of open
              spaces.  Many of these characteristics are physically represented by certain
              urban land-cover attributes, such as constructions materials and soil types,
              thus providing a means of measuring the relative importance of such
              characteristics through the use of remote sensing and GIS.  The basic
              hypothesis of this research will be tested in the Los Angeles metropolitan
              area, a dynamic, data-rich urban region which was affected in 1994 by a major
              earthquake disaster.  The research plan consists of three interrelated tasks. 
              First, a GIS prototype will be developed using a set of measures for assessing
              vulnerability in the contemporary urban realm of American cities without the
              inclusion of remotely sensed variables.  Second, the utility of remote sensing
              imagery will be demonstrated using data collected before the earthquake event. 
              These data will provide spatially explicit variables regarding land-cover
              attributes associated with variations of social vulnerability in the study
              sites.  The third task will consist of a test of the validity of the remotely
              sensed variables by re-assessing vulnerability in the study sites based
              exclusively on such variables.  The results of the first and third tasks will
              be compared and validated against reported damage figures from the 1994
              earthquake disaster.

The motivation for this project comes from the desire
              to develop an empirical base for a flexible approach to vulnerability analysis
              that can balance two competing demands.  The first need is to improve the
              understanding of the linkage among various contextual and social factors that
              produce vulnerability patterns.  The second is the need for offering a
              practical way for planners and decision makers undertaking local mitigation
              efforts to generate concrete profiles of vulnerable communities and to monitor
              changes in these profiles.  The broader contributions of this project therefore
              are both theoretical and empirical.  From a theoretical perspective, the
              research will contribute to hazard research by answering questions regarding
              the ecology of earthquake risk and how differential social vulnerability is
              connected to variations in the physical settings of urban areas.  From an
              empirical viewpoint, the product of this project will contribute to hazard
              mitigation efforts by providing decision makers with tools for exploring
              patterns of vulnerability and hence for implementing policies in a manner that
              fulfills the needs of sustainable hazard mitigation.  The methods employed
              offer a model of how to translate the technology for assessing vulnerability
              into procedures for easy use by local governments, which can increase the
              effectiveness of locally applied measures that could prevent earthquake hazards
              from becoming major human disasters.  The techniques in question are relatively
              low-cost and therefore the approach could suitably be modified to save lives in
              other developed and developing countries.  As a Doctoral Dissertation Research
              Improvement award, this award also will provide support to enable a promising
              student to establish a strong independent research career.

