              Wetland valuation is contested because of the coexistence of many diverse ideas
              about their value and use.  This proposed research operates from the central
              premise that critical inquiry should be directed towards documenting how these
              competing constructions play out in legal and geographical realms.  The Florida
              Mangrove Preservation Act (MPA) of 1996 was enacted as a means to lessen the
              alteration and destruction of these contested coastal habitats.  Although
              ultimate responsibility for the enforcement of the MPA rests with the Florida
              Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), regulatory status has been
              granted to some smaller scales of governance.  Within these regulatory
              jurisdictions (regional, county, and municipal), numerous attempts have been
              made to alter the MPA as a result of conflict over the intended uses of
              mangrove habitats.  In Naples, for example, development interests and
              environmentalists both attempted to rewrite the mangrove law and gain local
              control of Naples "mangrove space" through referendum.  This study proposes to
              document how different areas of the state address mangrove management under the
              guidance of the same general law.  Moreover it documents how competing
              constructions of mangrove habitat manifest themselves within the institutions
              granted regulatory jurisdiction under the Mangrove Protection Act of 1996, and
              how these institutions, in turn, shape the spatial and temporal patterns of
              mangrove alteration. The study has three specific objectives:  1) to
              characterize the historical distribution of mangroves in the state of Florida;
              2) to document variability in the protection of mangroves at regional, county,
              and municipal scales; and 3) to model future mangrove distribution.  To these
              ends, a synthesis of remote sensing, policy analysis, and Markovian modeling
              will be invoked.  A spatially and temporally consistent study of mangrove
              inventory has not been conducted in Florida.  Remote sensing change detection,
              utilizing a combination of principle components analysis and band ratio
              techniques, will be employed to identify regional trends in mangrove loss or
              gain from the mid 1980s until the present.  Because enforcement of the MPA goes
              beyond the simple empirics of change detection, open-ended interviews and
              formal surveys will be administered at various scales of governance.  Through
              the application of multidimensional scaling and case study analysis, interview
              and survey data will provide a more nuanced characterization as to how
              jurisdictions interpret and enact the provisions of the MPA. Markovian modeling
              will weight the historic trends in mangrove loss or gain according to policies
              and perceptions delineated from survey data so as to identify which
              jurisdictions are most likely to incur mangrove loss in the future. Through the
              multiple permutations of the jurisdictional weightings a range of mangrove
              alteration scenarios, each within the codes specified by the MPA, will be
              obtained. 

The results of this study provide a template for incorporating
              quantitative and qualitative information into a spatially explicit, temporal
              framework.  These results will present the first historically consistent view
              of the spatial extent of mangroves in the state of Florida, one that
              incorporates the role of individual actors and institutional dynamics.  The
              research is also of importance to larger theoretical issues embedded in the
              human-environment interaction   It explores the diversity of valuation patterns
              and processes, which may afford more critical insight than debates over the
              exact dollar value of wetlands.   Furthermore, this projects attempts to fuse
              together the equally important, but disparate veins of thought that constitute
              human and physical geography.  As a Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement
              award, this award also will provide support to enable a promising student to
              establish a strong independent research career.

