              With National Science Foundation support, Mr. Adams and his advisor Dr. Kleck
              will conduct a year long investigation to identify areas of the brain where eye
              gaze perception and facial expression perception are integrated in the
              processing of facially expressed affect.  Previous research has demonstrated
              that both perceived direction of eye gaze and perceived facial expression are
              social cues of great importance to humans, however these cues have been
              examined independent of one another. There is good reason to believe that eye
              gaze and perceived facial expression are not independent.  Eye gaze direction
              is likely associated with the production of emotional expression during
              experienced emotion.   Eye gaze direction and at least some facial expressions
              of emotion may share a common information value as signals of either approach
              or avoidance.  Such signals may be traced to a more primitive behavioral
              repertoire that likely evolved into present day emotion relevant behavior. 
              Thus, it is possible that perception of eye gaze direction and facial
              expression share common neural substrates enabling integrated processing of
              these two cues to occur.  Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI),
              Adams and Kleck will image the brain of volunteers as they perform
              psychological tasks measuring whether direct eye gaze will increase the
              perceived salience of anger and joy expressions and whether averted eye gaze
              will increase the perceived salience of fear and sadness expressions.  

This
              research will serve to increase our understanding of the facial cues that
              contribute to the perception of facially expressed affect and of the neural
              processes involved in the processing of such facial displays.  The findings
              will provide new insight into the interactions amongst brain systems
              representing emotion, facial expression, and gaze.  Insight into these systems,
              which play critical roles in everyday social interactions, will be useful for a
              variety of social and psychological issues. 

