              Why do major power states frequently fail to achieve even limited objectives
              when they use military force against vastly weaker targets? Recent research
              suggests that war outcomes are largely a function of strategic selection (war
              initiation), military-industrial capabilities, combat effectiveness, and
              strategy choice. But this model cannot explain why a major power would ever
              lose an armed conflict with a weak target. As the initiators of military
              interventions, major powers have the advantage of selecting
their target.
              Additionally, in post-WWII major power military interventions, the major powers
              invariably possess vastly superior military-industrial capabilities, higher
              quality troops, better leadership, and, unlike their targets, the ability to
              successfully execute even the most difficult and complicated military
              strategies (e.g. maneuver or combined arms strategies). Yet, frequently, the
              intervening major power is not able to achieve its war aims, or, if it does
              secure its objectives, success is temporary and the state is not able to
              maintain the objective (Arreguin-Toft 2001; Blechman and Kaplan 1978).

The
              student argues that the existence of political constraints on the ability of
              major power states to pursue their objectives to the full extent of their
              capabilities is a primary, but often neglected, or poorly operationalized,
              factor that can account for the discrepancy between outcomes predicted based on
              capabilities and observed outcomes in asymmetric conflicts. In particular,
              certain domestic political characteristics of the intervening state, attributes
              of the conflict, and characteristics of the international strategic context in
              which an intervention takes place can create constraints on the ability of
              major power leaders to use force effectively. Under some circumstances,
              domestic political and international strategic constraints become the primary
              determinants of violent conflict outcomes. This is particularly problematic for
              major power states that use force against minor power or non-state targets
              because, for the major power state, these interventions are initiated for
              limited aims, in the absence of a credible claim to
self-defense, and in a
              context of numerous competing international concerns and commitments. 
              

Standard models of war outcomes are built on the implicit assumption that
              both sides bring the full force of their capabilities to bear in a conflict.
              The primary predictors in such models are variables that capture potential
              power rather actual (situation specific) power. As a result, they are less able
              to explain conflict outcomes the more limited the conflict is for one side.
              

This study develops a model of military intervention outcomes that accounts
              for the fact that leaders must make operational decisions about foreign
              conflict prosecution within the confines of competing domestic political and
              geostrategic concerns. 

To test the hypotheses derived from this model, this
              project develops an original dataset of all major power military interventions
              since the Second World War and conducts aggregate analyses employing event
              history statistical techniques including competing-risks hazard analysis, an
              estimation procedure appropriate for questions pertaining to the impact of
              explanatory factors on both the outcome and duration of events.  

This
              study's focus on the dynamics of major power military intervention is
              particularly relevant in the current international climate, in which a major
              power war is much less likely than a series of violent contests between major
              power states and inrogueli states or non-state actors. Better theory and
              empirical evidence on the factors that affect the ability of states to achieve
              their political objectives through the use of force may at times allow
              decision-makers to design more effective military interventions. At other
              times, however, it may caution them against the use of force altogether.

The
              results of this project will address: 1) the influence of political constraints
              on the propensity of major power leaders to maintain, escalate, or withdraw
              from military operations abroad, 2) the affect of domestic political and
              geostrategic factors on intervention outcomes and duration, and 3) the
              conditions under which domestic political and geostrategic constraints have a
              significant effect on the conduct of foreign military operations. In addition
              to its theoretical and empirical contributions, this project will
result in a
              detailed and comprehensive dataset of post-WWII major power military
              operations, which will be made widely available to the social scientific
              community.

