              Under the direction of Dr. Patricia Crown, MS Elizabeth Bagwell will collect
              data for her doctoral dissertation.  She will direct a crew of experienced
              volunteers in intensive architectural recording at four cliff-dwellings located
              in the Sierra Madre Occidental along the border between the states of Sonora
              and Chihuahua, Mexico. These five to twenty room adobe buildings are believed
              to be contemporaneous with the regional center of Casas Grandes (or Paquime) 40
              km to the east, which dates to ca. A.D. 1100-1475.  MS Bagwell will examine
              these sites to determine how the production of architecture was organized among
              prehistoric societies in Northern Mexico. While full-time building specialists
              were probably necessary to build the pyramids and palaces common in more
              complex societies like the Aztecs, archaeologists know very little about the
              role of specialists in the every-day construction of the homes of the common
              people. 
     A technological analysis of architecture is one way to determine
              if specialists helped produce these buildings.  Buildings built by specialists
              should be more uniform than those built by non-specialists. Raw material
              composition, manufacturing techniques and planned construction of more than one
              structure at a time has been associated with architectural specialists.
              Therefore this work will compare these attributes and their production through
              time. One way of gaining a fine-grained understanding of architectural
              production through time is with tree-ring dating, a technique that uses the
              pattern of thick and thin growth rings in a tree, much like a bar code, to
              determine the year that the tree died and by association the year that the
              structure was built.  Temporal information resulting from tree-rings will be
              combined with technological data to create construction histories and
              settlement growth patterns. Ultimately, if uniform attributes are identified,
              they will be interpreted as evidence of prehistoric architectural specialists.
              
     MS Bagwell's research will contribute to the understanding of the way
              architectural production was organized in non-state societies. It will also
              expand our knowledge of a poorly understood Northern Mexico and establish the
              relationship between these sites and other contemporary groups such as the
              Hohokam, Casas Grandes, Rio Sonora and Animas. Finally, this research will move
              one step closer to establishing a badly needed chronology for the region.


