              ABSTRACT

OCE-0241946

River-transported dissolved organic matter (DOM) is
              the main source of terrestrial dissolved organic   carbon in the sea.  
              Chemical, photochemical and microbial processes that occur in estuaries can  
              dramatically alter the molecular composition, reactivity and optical properties
              of riverine DOM before it   is discharged into the oceans.  Many rivers and
              estuaries are net heterotrophic as indicated by CO2   supersaturation and
              efflux, which in turn indicates that terrestrial DOM is being respired at high
              rates.    High rates of respiration imply that terrestrial DOM undergoes
              structural degradation and loss of source   specificity. Thus, without a better
              understanding of the chemical and photochemical alterations that   riverine
              components undergo in estuaries, we may be incorrectly interpreting the
              chemical signatures   (i.e., source specificity) and optical properties of DOM
              ultimately discharged to the coastal zone. 

In this study, researchers at
              the Old Dominion University will attempt to quantify variations in the
              molecular size distributions, molecular-level characteristics, microbial
              availability, and optical properties of riverine and estuarine DOM as a  
              function of light exposure and initial DOM composition. The proposed
              experiments will test the following hypotheses:   (1) Photochemical alteration
              of aquatic DOM will lead to measurable shifts in molecular-weight distributions
              and functional group composition; the types and magnitudes of the shifts will
              depend upon the chemical characteristics of the initial DOM.  (2) Photochemical
              alterations of the DOM will change its bioavailability; whether the
              bioavailability increases or decreases will depend upon the chemical
              characteristics of the initial and photochemically altered material.   

A
              multiple molecular-level approach, including direct temperature-resolved mass
              spectrometry (DT- MS), pyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (PyGCMS),
              Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and nuclear magnetic resonance
              spectroscopy (NMR), will be used to characterize light-mediated changes in
              molecular-level composition within estuarine DOM and representative source
              materials believed to contribute significantly to estuarine DOM.  DT-MS and
              PyGCMS will be   performed on both ultrafiltered size fractions (UDOM) and
              size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) fractions isolated from the water samples.
              Changes in DOM structure, composition, functional groups  and oxidation as
              revealed by spectroscopic, chromatographic, and MS techniques will then be
              related to photochemically induced changes in DOM bioavailability
              (incorporation and respiration).  

 This study will be the first attempt to
              evaluate in detail the role of photochemical degradation/alteration processes
              on modulating the composition, microbial availability, and optical properties
              of DOM discharged from rivers and estuaries to ocean margins.  By combining
              mass spectrometry, FTIR, NMR, and optical property measurements with microbial
              availability determinations, the investigators expect to identify the
              functional groups and higher order structures responsible for varying both the
              optical properties and the bioavailability of the DOM pool.  The use of SEC and
              ultrafiltration to provide information on DOM size will indicate whether the
              size spectrum shifts significantly during photodegradation and whether this
              shift impacts DOM bioavailability.   


