              0002743 
Grove 

This grant provides two-years partial salary support for the
              research scientist responsible for the MIT Electron Microprobe Facility.  This
              is a Phase II technician support grant under the Instrumentation and Facilities
              (IF) Program and follows three years of Phase I support (EAR-9711826). During
              the first three years of support from NSF-EAR Instrumentation and Facilities we
              achieved significant progress in upgrading the facility, developing outreach
              and training programs for our users and securing the financial stability of the
              facility.  The instrumentation is now near state-of-the-art largely due to the
              efforts of Dr. Nilanjan Chatterjee, our technical research specialist. 
              Stimulated by the support of the NSF technician program, we have effectively
              made Dr. Chatterjee's position a permanent one.  Should it be necessary, we
              have identified the funding necessary to support Dr. Chatterjee for a two-year
              period beyond funding made through this grant.

Technical support for this
              lab facilitates research in a broad array of geoscientific investigations
              including: studies of hydrous phases in quenched high-pressure experimental run
              products to better understand the processes of melt generation with  subduction
              zones; geochronologic investigations of orogenic processes; trace element
              investigations of hot spot volcanics aimed at understanding the physical and
              chemical evolution of the Earth's mantle and core; and studies of the
              micro-mechanical properties of rocks which control the movement of fluids deep
              within the earth.  In addition, the MIT microprobe facility supports a large
              number of student users enrolled in the MIT-WHOI joint Ph.D. program as well as
              students and faculty from the Departments of Materials Sciences, Chemical
              Engineering, Chemistry and Archaeology.
***

