              In recent years. new applications such as large area conformal displays,
              multi-color organic displays. fault-tolerant terra-byte memories, large area
              solar cells, conformal electronic sensors for biological applications etc. have
              demanded that active electronic devices be grown on plastic films. With the
              exception of organic LED's, almost all such devices use amorphous Si as the
              active materiaL However, a-Si material suffers from low carricr mobilities, and
              poor stability. Therefore, the ability to grow thin film electronic devices in
              cri stalline Si-based materials on plastic substrates may provide both better
              performance and greater stability in these applications. Such a development
              would also allow one to grow c-Si devices on polyimide layers, which are widely
              used as planarizing insulators in standard c-Si wafer-based device technology,
              and thereby allow three dimensional device architecture. The development of
              thin film crystalline devices would be very useful for efficient integration of
              organic LED's with driver circuits on a polymer substrate. It is the objective
              of this proposal to develop hi2h performance crystalline Si- based electronic
              devices on plastic substrates.
The proposed work is based on our recent
              success, under a NSF SGER grant, in being able to deposit high quality c-Si
              films on polyimide. and making proof-of-concept c-Si solar cells in them. We
              plan a comprehensive research project to improve the electronic properties of
              the film and to make novel TFT devices in thcse films. The project embraces the
              following tasks:
o	Control of crystallinity of the films by using reactive ion
              beams of H, Cl and F during growth in a novel, well-controlled ECR
              reactor.
o	Systematic investigation of structural properties by using Raman,
              TEM. SEM and x-ray diffraction.
o	Systematic investigation of electronic
              properties by using DLTS, Hall measurements and capacitance spectroscopy of
              defect levels.
o	Study of growth of stable field-oxides (gate insulators in
              MOS devices) by controlled plasma-oxidation with F and 0 and study of
              oxide/semiconductor interfaces, using capacitance and conductance
              techniques.
o	Fabrication of horizontal TFT devices.
o	Measurement of
              properties of these devices, including channel mobility and stability after
              charge pumping and charge injection.
o	Fabrication of novel proottof. concept
              vertical TFT which may not be affected by grain boundaries.
The effort relies
              on using our past experience in material growth, material analysis, device
              fabrication and device design and analysis. The facilities exist to carry out
              this work.
	A significant educational component is planned, including graduate
              student and undergraduate student involvement. The undergraduate students will
              be drawn from our on-going NSF-REU site program. A significant minority student
              research experience is also planned. Women students, particularly at the high
              school level, will also participate in the program. The program will lead to
              development of new courses in this area, thereby integrating research and
              education.
	The project has a potentially significant impact on industry. We
              have planned a strong collaboration with a company, Micron technologies, which
              is expected to provide a cash grant for supporting additional graduate students
              in this research area.


