              The electric utility industry is in the transition from operating in a
              monopolistic environment to one that is regulated as a competitive marketplace.
              At this point in time, over eight markets have failed. The objective of this
              research is to analyze this new emerging electricity marketplace from the
              viewpoint of including reliability as a product dffferentiator as solved by
              adaptive agents. Reliability is a key feature of electric energy delivery and
              has provided national economic growth for almost a century. This research is
              interested in how a company would compete effectively for long term growth
              potential and for continuous financial performance.

This is a computer
              simulation of the portfolio analysis of various electric contracts with various
              levels of reliability. All players must use complex decision making to properly
              bid and to make a positive profit. This effort proposes to use classical
              optimization techniques in conjunction with decision analysis for the buyers
              and sellers of electricity in such an electric marketplace. This project will
              investigate the steady state results for the application of forecasting and
              decision methods to determine if price discovery occurs using various learning
              algorithms. Previous research by this author and others has lead to new
              algorithms based on real option analysis.

This effort proposes
              computer-learning algorithms (Modified Roth-Erev, genetic algorithm, genetic
              programming, and neural networks). Agents will be implemented with these
              techniques to generate a sustainable profit from the various energy markets.
              The long-term goal is to develop adaptive agents to assist humans who play the
              electric marketplace.

