              
CMS-0220309
PI:		Amy Rechenmacher
Institution:	Johns Hopkins
              University
Title:	"Enhancement of Experimental Imaging Capabilities for
              Advanced Study of Shear Band Growth and Evolution"

Abstract:

An
              experimental investigation is currently underway, involving plane strain
              testing and digital image analysis of shear bands.  The objective is to
              comprehensively evaluate the nature of the relationship between deposition void
              ratio and critical state line (CSL) for sands.  The study has been motivated by
              results of recent research in which experimental quantification of localized
              deformations (shear bands), and thus critical states, in dilative sands has
              indicated that CSL position in void ratio-effective stress space may not be
              unique, but rather dependent on deposition void ratio.  Since critical state
              concepts and the CSL are widely used in geotechnical analysis and design, the
              impact of these findings is potentially significant.  The ultimate goal is to
              derive from the results a quantitative description of the relationship between
              deposition void ratio and CSL, and to develop recommendations for incorporating
              the findings into current analysis procedures for liquefaction potential and
              constitutive models that utilize the CSL in its current unique
              form.

Experiments are being conducted in an advanced plane strain testing
              apparatus.  The apparatus is configured to promote unconstrained formation of
              shear bands and to permit the localization process to be analyzed
              photographically.  The technique of Digital Image Correlation (DIC) is used to
              measure directly localized displacements in sand specimens to a high level of
              accuracy.  The incorporation of a higher resolution digital camera than in
              previous studies, combined with the synchronization of image acquisition with
              data acquisition and control, will enable more accurate quantification of shear
              band deformations, including displacement patterns associated with shear band
              formation.  The highly developed photographic capabilities also will enable
              quantitative study of deformation mechanisms associated with other localized
              displacement phenomenon, such as temporary shear bands.

The configuration of
              the biaxial testing apparatus as described above offers one of the only
              currently available experimental methods to quantify the evolution of localized
              displacements in soils.  Unfortunately, however, in its current configuration
              only one plane of the shear band is visualized, yielding question as to the
              validity of the displacement quantification, in spite of its high accuracy.  In
              addition, the potential occurrence of out-of-plane volumetric exchange within
              the shear band cannot be addressed.

This study aims to overcome the stated
              limitations of the current experimental system by incorporating modifications
              to allow imaging through both plane strain walls, while keeping in tact the
              out-of-plane force measurement capabilities.  The modifications consist of the
              addition of a second digital camera, and load wall redesign to accommodate
              imaging.  These modifications shall affect several system improvements.  First,
              quantification of local displacements on two planes through the depth of the
              shear band will enable confirmation of locally derived critical state void
              ratios.  Second, the real-time comparison among displacement fields at both
              ends of the shear band and transducer measurements currently available at
              midpoint of the specimen depth will provide the opportunity to make more
              reliable observations about deformation uniformity through the depth of the
              shear band.  Measurements of local deformations to such a level of detail
              should contribute significantly to the understanding of granular soil
              behavior.

