              NSF Award Abstract - DMS-0102554
Mathematical Sciences: Enhancement and
              Quenching of Combustion by Fluid Flow

Abstract

0102554  Kiselev


It
              is known that in many combustion phenomena the turbulent advection of the
              underlying fluid plays an important role.  Depending on the setting, it can
              lead to a significant speed up of combustion or to the quenching of the flame. 
              The main goal of this project is to improve fundamental understanding of this
              important phenomenon.  In particular, this work explores analytically how the
              geometry, scaling, and intensity of the velocity field determine the effect
              advection has on combustion.  A primary goal is to determine the optimal
              geometry for the fastest extinction of the flame, or for the most effective
              speed up.  The models to be studied include passive reaction-diffusion
              equations with physically-motivated reaction terms, systems of
              reaction-diffusion equations, and active scalar models with feedback of
              temperature and concentration on fluid velocity.  The methods of analysis
              include maximum-principle-based techniques, estimates on solutions of partial
              differential equations, and functional inequalities, as well as some methods of
              harmonic and spectral analysis. 

The influence of strong fluid advection on
              combustion plays a crucial role in many important combustion processes in
              technology and in nature.  Strong fluid advection may drastically enhance the
              rate of burning, leading to higher efficiency, or, in some situations,
              extinguish the flame. This question has been extensively studied by engineers,
              physicists, and mathematicians alike. However, until very recent work of
              several research groups, there were few rigorous results on the topic. Building
              on the technique developed in earlier works, the project seeks to deepen the
              understanding of this phenomenon, in particular relating the geometric
              characteristics of the fluid flow with the effect it has on combustion. The
              potential impact of the project is an improved knowledge of combustion
              processes in settings as diverse as internal combustion  engines and stars. The
              research may lead to direct suggestions on the most efficient ways of flame
              suppression or enhancement.  In addition, the techniques developed for tackling
              this problem may prove useful in analyzing other partial differential
              equations.  


