              The service sector is the largest and a fast growing sector of the US economy
              accounting for 80% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  Specifically, warranty
              and repair services form a major component of the manufacturing and retail
              industry and there has been a rising trend to outsourcing the warranty
              services. This provides an opportunity for the original equipment manufacturer
              (OEM) to improve turnaround times by using the core competencies of the vendors
              specializing in repairs and maintenance. However, it also poses downward risks
              in terms of customer satisfaction, particularly in cases where poor experience
              in repair services may translate into future lost sales.  The investigators 
              plan to explore the following main issues faced by the OEMs.  (1) Contract:  
              The original manufacturer's contract with the service provider could be based
              on a fixed or variable fee per repair, or a lump sum amount of money per
              customer for the duration of the contract or other combinations. The contracts
              could have quality of service requirements associated with it. The OEM also has
              to determine how many service providers to contract with and whether or not to
              treat all of them in an identical fashion. Furthermore, the vendors of warranty
              services typically compete among themselves for the outsourcing business from
              the OEM.  The OEM needs to understand the implication of this competition while
              designing contracts.  (2) Allocation:  How should the OEM allocate its
              customers to the different service providers? One commonly used approach is to
              perform static allocation of customers based on costs, proximity, etc.  Another
              approach is to route the customer (in need of service) to an appropriate
              service provider based on the current workload of all providers. A third option
              is to differentiate the customers based on priorities and treat them
              accordingly. While performing the allocation the manufacturer needs to balance
              the cost benefits of allocating more jobs to less expensive service provider
              with the service delays customers may experience when there is congestion at a
              service provider.

Motivated by  interaction with the PC industry,  the
              investigators plan to model and optimize the contracts and allocations.  The
              investigators strongly believe that this research will provide novel
              qualitative insights on effectively outsourcing warranty and repair services. 
              In addition, the investigators plan to develop fast solution methods that can
              handle industry size problems and can provide a real-time decision support for
              managers.

