              Many industries rely on the proper functioning of their key assets, such as
              airlines on jet engines, electric utilities on generators, and army on
              helicopters.  A major obstacle on operation efficiency is asset unavailability
              due to forced outages and regular maintenance operations.  The latter, although
              planned, are generally characterized by long and uncertain durations.  Instead
              of embarking on more intensive preventative maintenance programs, the trend is
              to monitor asset conditions, and perform maintenance operations based on
              conditions to increase asset availability and reliability.  This imposes major
              challenges on the networks of maintenance service providers, including overhaul
              shops, repair shops, part distributors, and spare part manufacturers, to have
              short and predictable turn-around-times while reducing inventory in systems
              traditionally characterized by massive uncertainties.

The research is on
              scheduling, inventory optimization, and coordination of maintenance service
              networks under dynamic and uncertain environments to meet the challenges of
              condition-based maintenance.  By closely collaborating with our industrial
              partners United Technologies Research Center and i2 Technologies, Inc., three
              tasks will be performed.  The first is to develop stochastic scheduling models
              for large-scale maintenance service networks based on a realistic discrete
              event simulation model provided by our industrial partners.  A solution
              methodology that synergistically combines Lagrangian relaxation, stochastic
              optimization, and simulation will be developed to provide near-optimal
              solutions with quantifiable quality and confidence.  The second task is to
              optimize part inventory, balancing inventory costs and part availability for
              the scheduling method developed in Task 1.  Continuous and periodic review
              policies will be examined, and ordinal optimization will be used to optimize
              policy parameters.  In the third task, the autonomous nature of various
              organizations within a maintenance service network will be investigated.  The
              models of Tasks 1 and 2 will be decentralized.  A distributed and asynchronous
              coordination mechanism will be established, building on the pricing concept
              that is consistent with the methods developed in Task 1.  A mobile multi-agent
              system will then be designed and implemented for Internet-based deployment of
              the methods, paving the way for the next generation e-maintenance service
              networks.  Our goal is to reap the full benefit of the new maintenance service
              paradigm by having short and predictable turn-around-times while reducing
              inventory levels, making the best use of asset condition information and the
              information technology infrastructure.  The research shall also significantly
              contribute to the fundamental theory and practice of scheduling, inventory
              management, and supply chain management, improving the competitiveness and
              reliability of service enterprises.


