              Annual and monthly mean air temperatures are the standard parameters used to
              estimate recent climatic change.  The traditional focus on mean air temperature
              has ignored the additional probabilistic information that can be derived from
              historical data on daily temperatures.  Recent climatic change can be manifest
              in frequency distributions through a variety of changes to central tendency,
              variance, and other shape measures.  This project will develop a comprehensive
              procedure for the simultaneous detection of trends in all portions of
              air-temperature frequency distributions.  The project will use spatially
              extensive daily air-temperature data for 1,062 stations over the 48 contiguous
              states to develop the use of time-varying percentiles and other parameters that
              can estimate recent climatic change in innovative ways.  Flexible procedures
              that estimate percentiles and parameters within moving windows will be
              developed, and the robustness of these procedures will be evaluated.  Changes
              detected in the temperature data will be related to simultaneous changes in
              humidity and cloud cover as well as change in the shape of the diurnal cycle of
              air temperature.  Monitoring these synergistic interactions will provide a
              climate-change perspective that is a substantial extension of the traditional
              focus on central tendency.

This project will develop methods to detect
              trends that are not apparent when one examines only mean temperatures.  For
              example, trends in air temperature may show an increase in the mean while the
              lower portion of the frequency distribution shows substantial warming and the
              upper portion shows no change.  These changes would indicate not only a warming
              climate but also one where there is reduced variability with little change in
              extremely warm air temperatures.  As a general approach, this research will
              develop new methods for detecting changes in frequency distributions that can
              be applied to any environmental variable that is observed at relatively high
              temporal resolution.  Considering that ecological, economic, and social systems
              tend to be more sensitive to changes in variability and extreme environmental
              events, this research has wide applicability.  The changes identified will be
              of value for evaluating the economic, social, ecological dimensions of climate
              change.  The examination of time-varying percentiles, in particular, provides a
              flexible and robust approach for environmental change research.

