              0075944
Pellmyr
Mutualistic interactions create resources that are exploited
              by parasites. These parasites sometimes evolve from mutualists and they can
              greatly alter the dynamics of the interactions. Obligate mutualisms, such as
              those between seed-parasitic pollinators and their hosts, make excellent models
              for the study of such reversals because of their simplicity. This study will
              use a recently evolved cheater yucca moth and its pollinating sister species to
              test the first explicit scenario for any obligate mutualism of how it can
              evolve. In this scenario, specific life history traits and ecological context
              are suggested to greatly facilitate this type of diversification. The project
              has three objectives. First, the study will use phylogenetic analysis based on
              mtDNA and morphometric data to test explicit hypotheses about changing
              geographic ranges and history of coexistence between the cheater, two
              pollinators, and their shared host over the last 2-3 million years. Second,
              experiments will be used to test the hypothesis that the pollinator that gave
              rise to the cheater has requisite behavioral plasticity and ovipositor
              morphology to make the shift from pollinator to cheater habit comparatively
              easily. Third, the study will test a hypothesis suggesting that offset
              emergence phenology between coexisting pollinators facilitates the evolution of
              cheating in the later species. Taken together, this project would place a
              multi-species mutualism in its historical biogeographic context, and use a very
              recent case of evolution of cheating within that mutualism as a template to
              experimentally test specific but generalizable hypotheses about this
              ecologically important process of diversification.

