              A grant has been awarded to Dr. Daniel L. Distel of the University of Maine to
              investigate the evolution of wood-boring clams. Though not well known to the
              general public, wood-boring clams are destructive species that may be
              considered the marine equivalent of termites.  They include many diverse
              species that cause more than a billion dollars in damage to wooden structures,
              boats, and fishing gear annually in marine environments worldwide. The most
              destructive of these are the "shipworms"; worm-like clams that burrow into and
              eat wood. These voracious wood eaters can destroy a twelve-inch diameter pier
              piling in less than one year's time. Though they look like worms, molecular
              evidence suggests that they are closely related to the common "steamer clam", a
              staple of New England cuisine.  The purpose of this investigation is to use
              molecular data from several genes to reveal the evolutionary relationships of
              wood boring clams to other more common bivalves and to use these data to better
              understand how their destructive habits have evolved, including the role of
              associated bacteria.
 
Although wood can be treated with broad-spectrum
              chemical biocides to control wood-borer damage, use of the most effective
              treatments has recently been restricted or banned in many states and nations
              due to environmental concerns. New environmentally sound control methods are
              critically needed, particularly in low-income coastal communities where wood is
              the only affordable marine construction material. Such control measures must be
              targeted specifically to wood-boring species to minimize ecological impact. 
              Evolutionary studies will tell us how these nuisance species developed the
              ability to destroy wood and what makes them different from other more desirable
              and economically important marine species.   This knowledge will be essential
              for developing control methods that are safe and highly specific to these
              destructive organisms. 

