              Napoli, Joseph L.

The tenth biannual FASEB Summer Research Conference on
              Retinoids will be held June 25-30,2000, at the Copper Mountain Conference
              Center in Colorado. The study of retinoids (vitamin A and its metabolites and
              analogs) promises to provide fundamental insights into the mechanisms of
              diverse basic cellular processes, including apoptosis, vertebrate development,
              and transcriptional regulation.  This FASEB conference provides the "home base"
              for a rapidly growing and diversifying international community of scientists
              who work with retinoids. The interdisciplinary, topically diverse program of
              this meeting is planned to highlight major developments, foment new ideas,
              facilitate in-depth collegial interactions, reinforce existing collaborations,
              and kindle new ones.  Through its length and structure,  the conference
              provides ample opportunities for more junior investigators to interact with
              senior scientists from this country and abroad.  All attendees, including
              speakers, are encouraged to present a poster. Outstanding posters by junior
              investigators will be selected by a committee; these investigators will be
              invited to present their research in talks to the conference. The conference
              will begin with a plenary lecture by Professor Pierre Chambon. There will be
              nine sessions consisting of 49 invited speakers/participants and approximately
              10 oral presenters of posters. Each session chairperson will provide a brief
              overview. Speakers will be encouraged to present their most recent unpublished
              work-indeed, one criterion in the selection of speakers was the likelihood of
              significant unpublished advances at the time of the meeting. Previous
              conferences have been very successful, judging by the turnout and feedback of
              the attendees. Thus, this series has an excellent record on which to base
              theYear 2000 conference.

This series of well-attended research meetings has
              been the sole national and the major international forum that address the full
              spectrum of retinoid biology.  This award will be used to defray the meeting
              expenses of junior investigators.

