              
This award is made under the Exploratory Research on Engineering the Transport
              Industries (ETI) program solicitation. Bulk power systems form one of the
              largest and most complex inter-connect transportation networks ever built.
              These net-works throughout the world consist of large numbers of energy sources
              operating in near synchronism coupled through a high-voltage AC transmission
              system. As power systems have evolved, the dominant bulk power system has been
              formed as large groups of closely coupled machines connected by one or more
              transmission links. This situation has devel-oped as a consequence of growth in
              interconnections among regional power systems. With increasingly heavier power
              transfers, such systems become vulnerable to cascading failure as dynamics can
              couple throughout the system in unpredictable ways, Cascading failures may be
              brought on by naturally occurring events, or may be induced through
              terrorist-type activities. Examples of naturally occurring cascading failures
              include the infamous New York blackout in 1965 and more recently, the two
              California blackouts of July and August 1996.

Control of the power network
              has traditionally been decentralized due to geographic and regulatory
              constraints. The nodes (called "buses") in a power system are often
              geographically remote from one another with little or no systematic
              communication between them, making coordinated control difficult. Also,
              different regions of the national power grid may be owned by independent
              private or public entities whose operating venues differ. This, too, poses
              difficulties in coordinated control.

One of the most promising decentralized
              network controllers is the family of power electronics-based controllers, known
              as "flexible AC transmission system" (FACTS) devices. These devices locally
              modify the topology of the system by rapid switching. By the choice of
              switching patterns, these devices can achieve a variety of power system
              objectives, such as voltage support, oscillation damping, and stability
              improvement. This ability can be used for not only reliability objectives such
              as increasing the maximum throughput power, but can also be used to adjust
              power flow for economic reasons. In the power system restructured environment,
              it is foreseeable that power flows will be adjusted throughout the system to
              maximize economic objectives. These devices, however, are relatively new and
              few are cur-rently beyond the prototype stage, therefore their wide-spread
              impact on the transmission network has not yet been thoroughly
              analyzed.

While these devices offer increased network power flow
              controllability, the decentralized nature of their actions may cause
              deleterious interactions between them. In this project, we propose to utilize
              flexible topology FACTS devices in developing distributed control strategies to
              i) detect and mitigate intentional or unintentional cascading failures, ii,)
              develop operating strategies that can automatically adjust to changing economic
              and physical environments, and iii) develop interaction policies to mitigate
              counterproductive actions.

