              DATE:  January 8, 2001
PROPOSAL NUMBER:  OPP 0110244
ORGANIZATION:  Combustion
              Science and Engineering
PI:  Douglas Carpenter


The National Science
              Foundation's Office of Polar Programs operates up to six ski-equipped Lockheed
              LC-130 military cargo aircraft in Antarctica during the austral summer season,
              along with supplemental intercontinental flights of C-5, C-17, and C-141
              aircraft.  In addition, two ski-equipped utility deHavilland twin Otter (DHC-6)
              aircraft and four helicopters (Bell 212, AS 350's) fly intra-continental
              flights throughout the summer season.  At present, hard-surface ice runways
              capable of supporting wheeled aircraft operations are available at McMurdo
              Station, with compacted snow ski-ways available at the other sites (as well as
              at McMurdo)  Organized airfield rescue and fire fighting services are provided
              only at the airfields at McMurdo and at South Pole Stations.   The NSF
              published a request for proposals to study  all military and civilian
              guidelines for airfield rescue and fire fighting services and define the basic
              fire risks those standards have been established to address.  In addition, the
              contract is established to study recent reports by noted authorities regarding
              airfield rescue and fire fighting service requirements at airports to ensure
              that all fire risks have been identified.  

Three companies bid on the
              proposal.  Combustion Science and Engineering (CSE) of Columbia, Maryland was
              selected by the technical and business panels to be the award recipient at a
              fixed price of $99,600 for a level of effort of approximately six weeks.  The
              effort will be led by Mr. Douglas Carpenter.

The PI has prior experience in
              Antarctica.  The OPP Safety and Health Officer recommends this award be made at
              the fixed level of $99,600 effective 15 January 2001 for a period not to exceed
              six months.




						

