              This archaeological project involves the isotopic investigation of prehistoric
              human skeletal remains from the Mesolithic and Early Neolithic sites in the
              Iron Gates of the Danube River in southeastern Europe, dating to between 9000
              and 6000 B.C. The focus of the study concerns how the initial transition to
              prehistoric agriculture took place. Dr Price and colleagues hope to determine
              if foreign farming groups moved into this region or if local hunter-gatherers
              themselves adopted the practice of agriculture. 

Strontium and lead isotopes
              in prehistoric human tooth enamel will be measured to determine if individuals
              buried at these sites were local or foreign. These ratios are tracers of the
              geology of the areas where these individuals were born. Strontium and lead are
              incorporated into bone and enamel through the food chain as a substitute for
              calcium in bone and tooth enamel. Bone is continually remodeled during the life
              of an individual, so the chemical composition of the bone reflects the last
              years of life. The enamel in teeth, on the other hand, forms during infancy and
              early childhood and undergoes almost no subsequent change. Because strontium
              and lead isotope ratios vary among geological substrates, isotope ratios in
              teeth that do not match those of the local geology indicate immigrants to an
              area. 

The Iron Gates region, between Serbia and Romania, has been chosen
              for this research for several reasons. The area has a rich archaeological
              record for this period and samples will be obtained from burials at the sites
              of Lepenski Vir, Padina, Vlasac, Hajducka Vodenica, Ajmana, Velesnica, and Kula
              in Serbia, and Schela Cladovei in Romania. More than 500 human burials have
              been collected in these excavations, comprising the best skeletal archive for
              this period in all of Europe. Where temporal placement of a burial is
              uncertain, radiocarbon dates will be obtained directly from the skeleton.
              

Intellectual Merit. This research project provides an opportunity to
              resolve major archaeological questions about the transition from hunting to
              farming and about how agriculture spread in prehistoric Europe. Specifically,
              we have a chance to determine if farmers moved into new areas or if local
              hunter-gatherers became farmers. This information will have direct implications
              for questions regarding the expansion of agriculture and cultural change in
              other parts of the world. The study will also document the utility of isotopic
              methods for the investigation of human migration. 

Broader Impact. The study
              will document the application of new scientific methods to old archaeological
              questions and involve several young scholars in the process. The project is a
              cooperative one among US, Serbian, and Romanian institutes. Graduate and
              undergraduate students, both male and female, will be involved in the
              laboratory processing of materials and exposure to the research process. The
              results should be of interest to a wide range of archaeologists throughout the
              world.

