              This project investigates : (1) supercooled liquids and glasses and (2)
              singularities appearing in fluid interfaces.  The work is motivated by the
              possibility of an underlying similarity between the ways in which different
              materials can become jammed, or rigid.  This work studies similarities between
              a liquid undergoing a glass transition into an amorphous solid, with a yield
              stress, and a macroscopic, athermal, system, such a granular material, which
              becomes jammed into a configuration, also with a yield stress.  A "jamming
              phase diagram", which unifies these two seemingly disjoint transitions, will be
              explored using simulations and experiments on liquids to see if jamming
              produced by lowering temperature is similar to jamming produced by lowering the
              stress.  There will also be an investigation of force-chain formation.  Liquid
              surface singularities will be probed via high-speed photography to examine the
              singularity in the interface occurring when a drop splits into two separate
              pieces.  The spout formation itself will be studied using the geometry of
              selective withdrawal.  Possible applications for coating particles will be
              explored.  The students involved in this research will receive excellent
              training with novel instruments and measurements on highly interdisciplinary
              scientific topics. 
%%%
Many different materials become jammed so that they
              cannot move.  Such jamming can be observed in granular material flowing through
              conduits and hoppers in a factory.  It can also be seen in the context of glass
              formation when a molecular liquid is frozen into an amorphous state.  This
              research is aimed at exploring the ways in which these two seemingly disparate
              types of transitions may in fact be related to each other with similar
              underlying physical mechanisms at work to cause the cessation of motion.  The
              discovery of such an underlying cause would have important implications for a
              variety of scientific and technological problems.  Both computer simulations
              and experiments will be used to explore these jamming transitions. 
              Singularities in fluid flow are important whenever a drop of liquid breaks off
              from a larger body of fluid.  At such a point a simple mathematical description
              of the object breaks down because of the singular nature of the flows. 
              High-speed photographic studies will probe the nature such singularities. 
              There will also be a study of the spout formation using the geometry of
              selective withdrawal.  The use of this phenomenon for coating particles,
              including cells for medical applications, will be explored.  The students
              involved in this research will receive excellent training with novel
              instruments and measurements on highly interdisciplinary scientific topics.
              



