              This award by the Inorganic, Bioinorganic and Organometallic Chemistry program
              supports research by Professor Stephen J. Lippard at MIT to use
              carboxylate-bridged dimetallic complexes, mononuclear analogs and other
              transition metal complexes to develop water-soluble sensors for nitric oxide in
              neurochemical applications.  Nitric oxide (NO) is an important
              neurotransmitter, the generation and disposition of which are difficult to
              track in neuronal cells.  Dinuclear tetracarboxalato bridged complexes
              containing Fe, Co and other metals ions, and N-donor ligands bearing
              fluorescent dansyl or fluorescein-type units, will be used as NO sensors.  The
              ligands, the bright fluorescence of which is quenched when bound to the
              transition metal complexes, afford a sensitive method for NO detection when
              released upon NO coordination to the metal.  Water-soluble versions will be
              prepared for applications in neuroscience.  Mono- and dinuclear iron(II)
              complexes bearing N-methyliminodiacetate (mida) units tethered to fluorophores
              will also be synthesized for monitoring reversible NO binding. These complexes
              will be used to study early steps in dioxygen activation, which NO can imitate.
              Additional transition metal analogs will be studied in order to optimize the
              quenching of the bound fluorophore and to achieve reversibility. Carboxylates
              bearing coordinating fluorophores on tethers will help accomplish the latter
              goal.

Attaining the scientific goals will facilitate the measurement of a
              key signaling molecule in the brain.  Graduate and postdoctoral researchers are
              mentors to undergraduate research opportunity participants (UROPs) at MIT.  The
              infrastructure of research and education is enhanced by collaborations with
              scientists at other institutions and disciplines.  A diverse set of co-workers
              will participate and will be trained to communicate their work and assume key
              positions in academic or industrial organizations, as indicated by this
              research group's web site http://methane.lms.mit.edu:8001/group/.  

Sensors
              for nitric oxide, a key molecule in the brain involved in neuronal signaling,
              development and disease, will be designed and synthesized.  Workers will be
              trained broadly across the fields of inorganic chemistry and neuroscience

