              FOCUS is a new Physics Frontiers Center devoted to Frontiers in
              Optical
Coherent and Ultrafast Science.  The FOCUS mission is to provide
              national leadership in the areas of coherent control, ultrafast, and high field
              physics.  The work of FOCUS will include three frontier "Major Research
              Components" in High Field Control; Ultrafast Control; and Quantum Control. 
              FOCUS will extend the frontiers of its discipline:  the production, control and
              utilization of light pulses shorter than one thousandth of one trillionth of a
              second; physics of ultrahigh intensity laser fields, exceeding ten billion
              trillion watts per square centimeter; coherent manipulation of molecular bonds
              and molecular motion; and the control of quantum mechanics in ultracold atoms
              and ions.    The coherent field strengths under direct control will span 18
              orders of magnitude, from ultra-relativistic laser-driven plasmas (TV/cm) to
              control fields in cooled ion traps (uV/cm). Much of the coherent control
              physics developed in one area is applicable toanother.

	Science and society
              depend on these novel and rapid advances in coherent and ultrafast optical
              science now as never before.  The coherent and ultrafast optical physics
              developed by the FOCUS center will be at the forefront of some of the most
              ambitious and exciting advances in physics in the next two decades.  Examples
              extend across the
fields of matter-wave precision devices, gravitational wave
              detectors, x-ray free electron lasers, quantum encryption and computing,
              coherent control of chemistry, laser-driven particle acceleration, as well as
              others.  

	This award is jointly funded by the Division of Physics and the
              Office of Multidiscipliary Activities in the MPS Directorate.

