              The Fort Belknap College Initiative (FBCRSI) will expand the efforts that were
              begun during the past five years of work with the Tribal College RSI.  First,
              Standards-Based Curriculum and Assessment Training will be offered at least
              twice per year to orient new-hires and to provide ongoing training in current
              developments in standards based curriculum and assessment for all teachers. For
              the last two years the target
schools have synchronized their academic
              calendars to facilitate these professional development sessions and currently
              the schools are working on synchronizing the next academic year's calendar as
              well.  Now that the Standards-Based Curricula is in place, the focus has
              shifted to appropriate evaluation. Training in alternative assessment will be
              conducted three times per year, with the goal of all math and science teachers
              in the
target schools attending at least one of the sessions each year. 
              FBCRSI will coordinate the development of a Summer Institute for Math and
              Science teachers.  Second, since the bulk of accomplishments over the first
              five years has been at the elementary level, it is now time to focus on the
              secondary level and on the pre-service teacher program at Fort Belknap College.
              This slight shift in focus will insure that the
FBCRSI is providing services
              to the entire target population on the Fort Belknap Reservation at grades K-14.
              This will not only increase student achievement in math and science at the
              secondary level, but will also increase the number of Native Americans who
              choose math or science teaching as a career.  Third, the FBCRSI will expand its
              efforts in student achievement by coordinating and facilitating enrichment
              activities that include: Standards-Based After School Programs, Saturday
              Academies, and Summer School Programs. These programs will be customized for
              each target school student population to assist the students with remediation
              and/or enrichment activities to help all students achieve at high levels. 
              Fourth, the now-established FBCRSI program will continue with its successful
              RSI Steering Committee, which represents all targeted school populations in
              math and science.  Program personnel will expand efforts to provide leadership
              for the various
programs and departments within the reservation that will lead
              to more cooperation and less duplication of efforts.  FBCRSI will work
              collaboratively with all other RSI programs in Montana and statewide
              educational agencies/programs to coordinate shared activities, leverage
              resources, and share effective practices that have optimal impact on student
              achievement.


