              The overall objectives of this work are to develop a thorough 
understanding of
              three-dimensional water waves of finite amplitude, and 
ultimately to develop
              a practical model to describe these waves efficiently. 
A model that is both
              accurate and computationally efficient could have 
many practical
              applications. Specific problems to be addressed are: (1) the 
existence and
              stability of three-dimensional, doubly-periodic, traveling 
water-wave
              patterns, through the full range of depths; (2) the prevalence 
of hexagonal,
              rectangular or crescent-shaped waves (or other multiply 
periodic wave
              patterns) among ocean waves; (3) the long-wave and 
modulational descriptions
              of water waves, and the subsequent stability 
analyses that are feasible in
              these cases; (4) the design and implementation 
of algorithms to make
              practical use of exact solutions of asymptotic 
models in shallow and deep
              water; (5) the relation between the detailed 
dynamics of three-dimensional,
              nonlinear waves and some commonly 
used ocean-wave transport models; and (6)
              the impact of a detailed local 
description of nonlinear wave dynamics on
              these transport models, in the 
presence of large amplitude nonlinear waves or
              under conditions of 
nonlinear wave focusing. These problems will be studied
              using analysis, 
computation, asymptotics, and algebraic geometry, involving
              the full 
equations and approximate models, all in conjunction with
              state-of-the-art 
physical experiments.

The destructive force of
              large-amplitude ocean waves is well known. 
Large-scale ocean waves have a
              major impact on the design of ocean-
going ships, of off-shore oil platforms,
              and of other structures in a coastal 
environment.  These waves also impact
              the scheduling and routing of 
shipping patterns, and they strongly affect
              air-sea transport processes. Yet 
most theoretical models of ocean waves now
              in use are based on waves of 
small amplitude. In this investigation we focus
              on developing a thorough 
understanding of large-amplitude waves. The ultimate
              goal is to develop a 
practical, mathematical model that may be used
              operationally in the 
applications listed above. In particular, the
              investigators plan to build on 
their recent work in which they have observed
              certain coherent patterns of 
large-amplitude waves. They have observed these
              patterns in laboratory 
experiments, as solutions to the well-known equations
              of water waves, and 
as solutions to other equations that are (more)
              approximate models of 
water waves. Their work involves a variety of
              mathematical and 
computational tools as well as state-of-the-art laboratory
              experiments. In 
the present work the investigators will combine all of their
              tools to 
understand and describe these coherent patterns and to use them as
              the 
building blocks for a practical model of ocean waves.

