              This project is an investigation of some of the fundamental processes behind
              interannual and decadal variability in the coupled ocean-atmosphere system of
              the tropical Pacific.  One focus of the proposed research is whether there are
              energetic coupled modes in different frequency bands: "fast" - on the order of
              1 year; "intermediate" - the ENSO mode; "slow" - a decadal mode, and whether,
              together these modes and their nonlinear interactions can produce some of the
              complex time dependence seen in the tropical Pacific.  Several approaches will
              be used to study the problem.  First, the linear modes of a hierarchy of
              different linearized coupled models will be determined.  The most complex of
              these models is a coupled MOM3 multi-level ocean and a multi-level spectral
              atmospheric model, linearized around a steady state.  The response of the
              linearized models to high-frequency stochastic forcing will also be examined. 
              The upper-ocean energy budgets of these models will be diagnosed in order to
              understand the dynamics responsible for each mode.  A modified version of the
              Cane-Zebiak intermediate model will be used to examine nonlinear interactions
              between the different modes.  It is anticipated that the fast coupled mode and
              the ENSO mode will interact primarily through the effects of zonal advection on
              temperature while the ENSO and decadal mode will interact through ocean
              thermocline displacement.  The effects of using more general stochastic wind
              stress and heat flux forcing (using observed spatial EOFs with amplitudes that
              are white noise processes) will also be examined.  The process modeling
              approach will be augmented with analysis of decadal variability in climate
              model output through a collaboration with Dr. Kimoto of Tokyo University
              (CCSR).  This research is important because it has the potential to improve the
              physical understanding of the observed behavior of coupled ocean-atmosphere
              climate phenomena in the tropical Pacific and, hence, projections of climate
              phenomena such as El Nino.
