              
Abstract for DMS - 0103626

The PI, Christopher Bishop,  will study the
              geometric properties
of conformal mappings in the plane and quasiconformal
              mappings in space,
focusing on the expansion properties of such maps and
              investigating
various applications to geometric function theory, dynamics
              and
topology.  The PI has shown that a result of Dennis Sullivan's
concerning
               the geometry of convex
bodies in hyperbolic three space implies a
              factorization
theorem for conformal mappings in the plane and this, in
              turn,
implies  uniform bounds on the amount of
contraction a conformal map in
              the plane can have.  Finding the best constants
in the factorization  theorem
              has consequences for well
known problems such as dimension distortion,
              integral means and Brennan's
conjecture.  The PI will continue his work
              on
limit sets of Kleinian groups, a natural and important class of fractal
              sets.
The questions here are mainly to estimate the fractal dimension of these
              sets
and study the behavior of the dimension as the group is deformed. 
The
              PI will also  work on the metric properties
of harmonic measures, particularly
              results which quantify the 
idea that harmonicmeasure cannot be concentrated
              on a small set.  Problems include the
lower density conjecture, stability of
              harmonic measure and the growth rate
of diffusion limited aggregation.  A few
              other questions
involving  quasiconformal and biLipschitz maps are also
              considered.


Conformal mappings are a class of functions which are
              important
in many area of mathematics and which are closely related
to mnay
              physical problems (fluid flow, heat conduction, 
electric fields, random
              growth models, ...) and have been 
intensively studied for many years.  One of
              the fundamental 
properties of such maps is expansion; they tend to push
              
points farther apart on average.   Making this precise has 
motivated much
              research in mathematical analysis.
The  PI has discovered a new way of
              quantifying
this expansion by approximating conformal maps by (the
              more
general class of) quasiconformal maps and showing these
approximations
              may be taken with a very  strong 
expansion property.  This has given a
              clearer understanding of some
known results and has led to progress on new
              problems.
In particular, it implies new results about Kleinian groups
(these
              are important examples of conformal dynamical systems, 
and hence a
              contribution to the more general area of 
dynamical systems, fractals and
              chaos).  The PI's approach 
also ties the behavior of conformal maps to the
              geometry 
three dimensional hyperbolic space; this connection seems 
to be
              new and should lead to many interesting problems 
and  more interaction
              between the areas of complex 
analysis and three dimensional topology (already
              connected 
in other ways).  He will also investigate the
              computational
aspects of this connection which may lead to new methods 
of
              computing conformal maps and Greens functions (important
for a variety of
              applications).  The PI will also continue 
his investigation of other problems
              including the geometry  of random
paths such as Brownian motion, the stability
              under
perturbation of certain dynamical systems and fundamental
geometric
              properties of conformal and quasiconformal mappings.

