              DMS-0203976
Yair Minsky

In this project Minsky will study connections
              between the geometric
structure of hyperbolic 3-manifolds, and the
              combinatorial structure
of surfaces. The main focus of the project is a
              program to solve
Thurston's Ending Lamination Conjecture, which states that
              a
hyperbolic 3-manifold is uniquely determined by its topological type
and a
              list of invariants describing the asymptotic geometry of its
ends. This
              conjecture is central in the field and would settle a
number of outstanding
              questions about the structure of the deformation
space of all hyperbolic
              structures on a given manifold.  The principal
tool in this approach is the
              Complex of Curves, a combinatorial object
which describes the set of all
              essential homotopy classes of simple
loops on a given surface.  Such a
              complex, viewed as a metric space,
is hyperbolic in the sense of Cannon and
              Gromov, and the invariants
which describe the geometry of a 3-manifold turn
              out to be "points at
infinity" for the complex. A study of geodesics within
              the complex of
curves then allows us to construct a model for the geometry of
              the
3-manifold which depends only on its end invariants.  Part of the
program
              is joint work with Brock and Canary.  The complex of curves is
also
              instrumental in studying the Teichmuller space of hyperbolic
structures on a
              surface, and its symmetry group, known as the Mapping
Class Group.
              Hyperbolicity of the complex implies a type of relative
hyperbolicity property
              for the Teichmuller space and the Mapping Class
Group, and in collaboration
              with Brock and Masur, Minsky hopes to
apply this to study the geometric
              properties of Teichmuller space, and
to answer a number of group-theoretic and
              algorithmic questions about
the mapping class group.



Topological spaces
              appear in mathematics at varying levels of
abstraction. The earth, for
              example, can be thought of as a sphere,
spinning around its axis. The set of
              all positions of this sphere,
perhaps as parameterized by the time of day in
              New York, can itself be
visualized as a circle.  The positions of the earth in
              its orbit
around the sun also make up a circle, and all this
              information
together can be described by a 2-dimensional surface, called a
              torus,
so that each point in the torus corresponds to exactly one position
              of
the earth-sun system, and our motion in space gives rise to a
trajectory
              winding around the torus.  Once a surface is being studied,
we often give it
              various structures: it can have a metric, which is a
way of measuring distance
              in it; it can also be filled up in different
ways by loops. The set of all
              possible metrics can itself be studied
as a "space", where motion in this
              space corresponds to changing
shapes of the surface. The set of all loops in
              the surface gives
rise to another space, of a more combinatorial character. 
              A
fascinating phenomenon, not uncommon in mathematics, is the appearance
of
              analogies between these different levels of abstraction. For
example, a
              property of a single metric on a surface called "hyperbolicity"
appears again,
              in another guise, as a property of the space of all
metrics on the surface and
              the space of all loops. The interaction
between these different levels yields
              interesting phenomena and tools
which can be applied to solve a number of
              problems in

