              0002993
Torgersen

Educational research supports the critical importance of
              creating a realistic context in the classroom that is engaging to students. 
              Theories of situated learning, instructional approaches such as anchored
              instruction, and successful high school, UG geoscience efforts, all recommend
              that students be engaged in a "macro-context" that situates learning in the
              authentic practices of scientists, politicians, and/or citizens.  This
              increases the probability that students will detect the usefulness of
              geoscience knowledge as a tool for solving problems in their own real world;
              that is, they will detect the information's raison d'etre and be able to
              transfer learning from the classroom to their own lives.  In order to 1)
              provide opportunities to learn, 2) provide the tools to extrapolate from
              personal experience (the best learning tool) 3) appreciate the
              scientific/economic couplings and feedback loops that affect their daily lives
              and 4) appreciate the temporal response of coupled systems, and 5) mindfully
              engage both undergraduate and high school students in construction of
              understanding concerning coupled dynamic environments across multiple scales
              (lab water, pond water, and the waters of Long Island Sound), the PIs will
              acquire and install an Instrumented Environmental Laboratory (InEnLab) at the
              University of Connecticut.  Commercially available environmental probes will be
              installed in campus ponds that clearly demonstrate (on a daily timescale) the
              coupled interactions of chem./bio/phys within these small, commonplace ponds. 
              The data streams (T, cond., O2, pH, etc., every 15 minutes) from these in situ
              probes will be directly connected to the Internet and available in real time
              through (e.g., www.myPond.uconn.edu) modeled after an existing
              www.mySound.uconn.edu .  An anchored problem involving water issues in and
              around the University community will serve as a context for students to
              develop, identify and quantify the dynamics of this coupled system.  This
              web-accessible data stream (with scientist diary comments) will then serve as a
              context for UG and HS classroom problems/examples, demonstrations of coupled
              system dynamics and independent inquiry as well as create unique opportunities
              for undergraduate honors theses.  Such experiences will afford students an
              opportunity to inter-relate these experiences with observations they make
              during controlled laboratory experiments that quantify discrete processes and
              lead to an appreciation of the magnitude and temporal response of environmental
              systems over larger time scales and larger space scales.  Transfer of knowledge
              will be stimulated by comparison of the processes and time scales in Mirror
              Pond to Bridgeport Harbor and Long Island Sound using streamed data from
              www.mySound.uconn.edu.  Project management will take a management-by-objectives
              approach.  Formative evaluation dependent measures will include completion of
              objectives and timelines, online website statistics, instructor variables
              (implementation fidelity) and student variables (knowledge, attitudes, and
              behaviors including interest, self-efficacy, and geoscience content
              achievement).  Formative evaluation methods will include teacher and student
              surveys, artifacts of student problem solving on the scenario, course grades,
              teacher interviews and student interviews.  The formative evaluation will be
              conducted by project team members and the summative by an external evaluator.

