              ABSTRACT

PI: Angelo Lucia 
Institution: University of Rhode Island
Proposal
              Number: 0113091

The aim of this research is to find all relevant solutions
              and singular points to physical models by dynamically uncovering the essential
              features of the terrain of the least-squares function.  The central idea comes
              from finding intelligent ways of moving both up and down the landscape of the
              least-squares function.  The foundation of the research rests on following
              fundamental observations:
Stationary points are smoothly connected under twice
              continuous differentiability;
Valleys, ridges, ledges, etc., provide a natural
              and useful characterization of this 
connectedness;
Valleys, ridges, etc.,
              can be characterized as a collection of constrained minima over a set of level
              curves; and
The natural flow of Newton-like vector fields tends to be along
              these distinct features of the landscape.
These observations and conjectures
              are illustrated using both chemical engineering models and mathematical
              benchmarks.

The methodology based on exploiting these observations results
              in algorithms called Global Terrain Algorithms (GTA) and consist of successive
              sequences of downhill (i.e., equation-solving computations) and uphill
              movements (i.e., predictor-corrector calculations).  Downhill movement to
              either a singular point or solution is established using reliable,
              norm-reducing (complex domain) trust region methods.  Uphill movement, on the
              other hand, is necessarily to a singular point and uses uphill Newton-like
              predictor steps combined with intermittent corrector steps defined in terms of
              neighboring extrema in the gradient norm on the current level set for the
              least-squares function.  Initial starting points are arbitrary while starting
              points for subsequent subproblems defining movement from one stationary point
              to another are along appropriately determined eigenvectors.  These eigenvectors
              are calculated or approximated, provide knowledge about valleys, ridges,
              ledges, etc., give good initiations for further downhill or uphill movement,
              and can be considered a generalization of the eigendecomposition (or saddle
              point theory) of Sridhar and Lucia.  Collisions with boundaries of the feasible
              region and severed valleys and ridges are also considered.  As the
              connectedness of stationary points unfolds during problem-solving, limited
              connectedness is revealed and used to define the termination criterion for the
              GTA.  Similar ideas are applicable to chemical process optimization be
              replacing the least-squares function with some other objective function.



