              0203387
Lin

This program will systematically develop a nonsmooth feedback
              design 
methodology for the control of genuinely nonlinear systems that may
              not 
be dealt with, even locally, by any smooth feedback. Nonsmooth feedback
              
designs offer the potential to overcome some topological obstructions of
              
the system that cannot be addressed by smooth controls, for example, to
              
globally stabilize a nonlinear system that is not stabilizable by any linear
              
or smooth state feedback. The research will address some of the most
              
critical and challenging issues in the field of nonlinear control, including
              
global strong stabilization, practical output tracking and adaptive control
              
for nonlinearly parameterized systems with uncontrollable unstable
              
linearization.  A unique thread in our development is the explicit
              
construction of homogeneous-like Lyapunov functions and non-Lipschitz
              
continuous controllers, based on a synthesis of methods drawn from
              
differential geometric control theory, homogeneous systems theory, as 
well
              as the development of feedback domination design techniques for the 
control
              of nonlinear systems whose Jacobian linearization contains 
uncontrollable
              modes associated with eigenvalues on the right-half plane.   
This work will
              also include a geometric characterization and a higher-
order normal form for
              a significant class of nonlinear systems.

Many control systems of practical
              importance (e.g. internet network, 
manufacturing systems, biomimetic actuator
              systems, electrically 
stimulated muscles, underwater or aerospace vehicles
              and so on) have 
genuinely nonlinear characteristics that cannot be dealt with
              by existing 
feedback design methods; most of them are smooth in nature. In
              fact, a 
goal of active research has been to transform a physical dynamic
              system 
into a linear one for which the well-developed modern control
              techniques 
(linear systems theory) are readily applicable. These
              "linearizing" 
techniques have serious limitations due to canceling the system
              
nonlinearity by feedback or neglecting the complexity of dynamic 
systems.
              Consequently, these design methods have not found wide 
applications in a
              number of new real-world problems, such as control of 
complex network (e.g.
              internet or power systems network) or controlling 
the position and speed in
              sophisticated weapons (e.g. missiles and 
advanced combat aircraft). The
              purpose of this research is to find ways to 
take advantage of the potentially
              dramatic, though nonintuitive, effects 
caused by the inherent nonlinearity or
              complex interactions of physical 
forces with physical systems. The main
              outcome of the proposed research 
will be new, nonsmooth feedback design
              methodologies for the control of 
dynamic systems. It is expected that the
              benefits to a systematic approach 
towards using nonsmooth control will be
              becoming widely appreciated, 
particularly in industries (e.g. manufacturing,
              aerospace, power and 
biomedical engineering) where many applications of
              nonsmooth control 
can be found.

