              This project, which is supported by the Division of Materials Research and the
              Office of Multidisciplinary Activities in the Directorate for Mathematical and
              Physical Sciences, aims to investigate the life limiting thermal cycling, creep
              and microstructural instability of lead-free solders for electronic packaging
              with special reference to flip-chip (FC) and ball-grid array (BGA) packages.
              The project is a highly leveraged collaborative program of research between
              Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) and Intel (Chandler, AZ). The objectives of
              this GOALI proposal are to (1) devise a methodology for rapid creep
              characterization of FC and BGA solder balls with minimal sample preparation,
              based on the impression creep approach; (2) develop a unified creep model
              incorporating the effect of phase coarsening applicable to lead-free solders of
              2 representative microstructural types; (3) generate comprehensive creep and
              coarsening kinetics data for solder joints of 2 selected lead-free alloys
              belonging to these microstructural types; and (4) provide fundamental
              mechanistic insight into the roles of microstructural scale and compositional
              artifacts (associated with attaching tiny volumes of solder to other materials)
              on the evolution of creep behavior during thermo-mechanical cycling (TMC). A
              major goal of the project is to directly measure the creep response of
              individual solder balls joined to a substrate, in lieu of the standard tests on
              bump arrays and bulk materials. The study will lead to an understanding of the
              fundamental phenomenological dependence of creep kinetics on the (a)
              microstructural scale, and (b) process-history dependent compositional
              variations of the joints. These goals are achieved by a systematic variation of
              material and process parameters. The work constitutes developing closed-form
              unified creep laws including microstructural coarsening effects, which may be
              incorporated into finite element models for solder-joint reliability
              assessment. The impression creep of single solder bumps is a challenging
              scientific effort and the successful completion of the project will have direct
              impact on semiconductor electronic packaging technology in predictive
              engineering processes. The work is multidisciplinary with impact on
              experimental aspects in materials sciences and mechanics, as well as predictive
              modeling efforts involving microstructural as well as finite element aspects.
              The project takes advantage of the expertise and experimental facilities
              available at the academic institution (NPS) as well as industrial counterpart
              (Intel/Chandler). In addition, collaboration with experts at Motorola is
              pursued. The unique aspect of this GOALI program includes the time spent by the
              Intel PI at the academic institution.  The personnel (PI, post-doctoral fellow
              and graduate students) from the academic institute (NPS) plan to perform
              studies at the industrial laboratory (Intel/Chandler) while Intel supports the
              post-doctoral fellow during that time. The educational and technological
              impacts of the program are rated superior.

The program is a close
              collaboration between NPS and Intel with secondary interactions with personnel
              at Motorola with implications to developing a thorough understanding of the
              life-limiting aspects of lead-free solders in microelectronic packaging. The
              project has practical importance to the microelectronic industry while
              addresses basic scientific issues. The study will (a) develop testing
              methodologies and models for improving current reliability engineering
              practices, and (b) generate kinetics data for two lead-free solders of
              strategic importance to the industry. The collaboration of the university
              personnel with industrial counterparts provides a significant opportunity for
              students.

