              Haptic perception refers to the perception one has of one's body, and of
              attachments to it, by means of the body.  The term incorporates what is
              commonly meant by "touch," and more besides.  For example, without benefit of
              vision, one is obviously aware of the directions of one's limbs and one can be
              aware of the spatial properties of objects that are wielded and hefted.  These
              perceptual abilities are expressions of a form of haptic perception referred to
              as dynamic touch.  It is so called because of its basis in the deformation of
              muscles and tendons, and the consequent activation of their receptors, by
              forces.  The forces arise from either the muscles or the environment or both.
              Because of the ways in which limbs move around joints, the forces are largely
              rotational.

This research will address the perceptual achievements of
              dynamic touch and their relation to the rotational dynamics of limb movements. 
              The focus will be on the relation of these achievements to mechanical and
              rotational quantities, in particular the inertia tensor and attitude spinor. 
              The tensor quantifies an object's resistance to being rotated.  The spinor
              quantifies an object's orientation relative to some reference frame (for
              example, the hand) in a manner consistent with the special physical rules for
              combining three-dimensional rotations.  A major thesis is that, in the
              nonvisible perception of an object's spatial dimensions by wielding or hefting,
              the hand-related haptic subsystem behaves as a smart instrument.  It cleverly
              capitalizes on physical laws and on physical quantities that do not change as
              an object is wielded and hefted. 

In some of the basic methodologies, the
              participants will wield an unseen object to perceive its weight, length, width,
              or shape.  Participants will respond by assigning numbers relative to a
              standard object or by adjusting (visible) movable surfaces or pointers to
              quantify the perceived properties.  Often, the unseen object will be a
              configuration of rods that can be manipulated through the precise placement of
              attached metal rings to produce any desired inertia tensor.  In other basic
              methodologies, the participants will attempt to orient a nonvisible upper limb
              or limb segment to another nonvisible limb.  Most methodologies will involve,
              additionally, the acquisition of motion data on the wielded objects and limb
              movements and analysis by nonlinear phase-space reconstruction procedures.  The
              major objectives will be the determination of (1) the dynamical variables
              governing the perception of heaviness; (2) the achievements and limits of shape
              perception without vision; (3) the tuning of dynamic touch, overtly and
              covertly, by specific experience; and (4) the basis for perceived constancy of
              postures. 

Understanding the principles governing dynamic touch should
              enrich our appreciation of the physical constraints that must be respected in
              computational and neural modeling of perceptual systems.  It will provide a
              source of new hypotheses about somatosensory disorders and about designs for
              prosthetic and robot limbs.  Such understanding might also be expected to
              motivate more intensive study of the physical principles formative of
              biological perception-action systems and of the cognitive and neural
              constraints that exploit them.

