              PI: Hart Smith, University of Washington
DMS -
              0140499


Abstract:
--------------------------------------------------------

The investigator's research focuses on the behavior of solutions to
hyperbolic equations in the setting of metrics of low regularity.
The key tool is the construction, through wave packet techniques, of
approximate solutions for linear wave equations with minimally regular
metrics, which are then used to establish Strichartz and related estimates
for exact solutions. One application of this work is to well-posedness
for quasi-linear hyperbolic equations with initial data of low Sobolev
regularity. In joint work the investigator has established a best possible
result for general quasi-linear equations with quadratic growth in the
inhomogeneity; proposed work investigates relaxing the regularity assumption
in special cases such as the Einstein vacuum equation, where a null condition
indicates that better results should hold. Wave packet techniques are
also being used to establish norm estimates for eigenfunctions on
Riemannian manifolds with metrics of limited differentiability.
The proposed research includes establishing best possible bounds
for compact manifolds with Lp pinched curvature. The investigator
is also adapting the above methods to establish norm estimates
on solutions to mixed-type wave equations with Dirichlet conditions on a
convex obstacle. This is carried out by reflecting the metric across the
boundary to obtain a Lipschitz metric on an open set. The geometry of
the resulting geodesic flow suggests that wave packet techniques can be
used to establish the same norm estimates on solutions as hold in the
non-obstacle case.

The proposed research involves the study of waves traveling in rough media;
a rough medium being one where the physics which governs the speed of waves
changes abruptly from point to point. By studying the properties of a
special family of localized solitary waves, the investigator is able to
answer questions about the possible concentration of energy that can occur
for general waves traveling in such media. This work has important
applications in the study of nonlinear wave equations; that is, situations
where the wave can be considered to interact with itself. One such example
is the gravitational field equation arising from Einstein's general theory
of relativity, where the geometry of space itself is the object of the
equation. Rough solutions, and thus a rough media, necessarily arise when
considering what kind of singularities the theory can lead to. The research
also has implications for investigating the fundamental vibrational modes
in rough media. It is known that refraction in such media can lead to high
concentrations of energy that can be detected by examining these modes.
Work is being done to relate the possible degree of concentration of energy
to the roughness of the underlying media. The research finds applications
as well in studying the reflection of waves off obstacles. The techniques
developed to study rough media are being used to show that waves reflecting
off of convex obstacles must diffuse to the same degree as do waves
traveling without reflection.


