              Laci Jalics, Delphi Research Labs
Giorgio Rizzoni, The Ohio State
              University
Andrea Serrani, The Ohio State University
Ahmed Soliman, The Ohio
              State University

Hierarchical, Modular Fault Diagnosis in Complex
              Systems
The objectives of this GOALI project program are: 1) to develop a
              methodology that permits the design of modular, hierarchical, model-based
              diagnostic algorithms that can result in re-usable software modules, and that
              can be methodically organized into a complete, self-contained monitoring
              system; and 2) to demonstrate the methodology in collaboration with an industry
              partner.

Fault tolerance is a critical element in complex automotive systems
              because of the introduction of "by-wire" systems in vehicles. "by-wire" systems
              generate electrical commands through driver input and transfer them to the
              computer-controlled electro-mechanical actuators. With respect to traditional
              systems, "by-wire" systems require complex control and diagnostic strategies to
              guarantee proper vehicle behavior and to prevent system malfunctions.  A
              significant roadblock for safety-critical by-wire systems is the realization of
              a robust fault-diagnostic strategy that can be accomplished quickly and with
              limited or no additional hardware.  

This project addresses these issues in
              three stages: 1) through the use of physically based system models to
              understand interactions and dependencies among subsystems in a complex system;
              2) with the design of residual generator units that can locally diagnose faults
              in components, sensors and actuators; and 3) using a hierarchical structure
              that links components, systems, and subsystems through the use of fault
              propagation digraphs. The fault propagation digraph contains a hierarchical
              representation of available knowledge about the characteristics of fault
              propagation within the system. Each level in the hierarchy contains one or more
              structures that together represent a view of the system under a particular
              granularity. The granularity of view increases with levels. Thus as one
              traverses down the levels of the model, the resolution of view increases. If a
              high resolution of diagnosis is not required, failure analysis may be confined
              to the upper levels of the hierarchy, thereby preventing a slowdown of the
              diagnosis due to excessive detail. 

