              Instrumental records of climate in California extend back approximately 100
              years and are too short in length to capture the full range of natural
              variability of temperature and precipitation in the state. The project will
              provide records of climatic variability that extend back over 12,000 years. The
              project will analyze fossil midge fly larva (Chironomids), crustaceans
              (Cladocera), unicellular aquatic algae (diatoms), terrestrial plant
              microfossils, and geochemical evidence from lake sediments from the eastern
              Sierra Nevada to reconstruct records of temperature and effective moisture that
              extend back over 12,000 years. Chronologies will be linked to the records by
              the radiocarbon dating of organic matter in the lake sediments. Previous work
              has developed mathematical models that provide numerical estimates of past
              temperature and effective moisture from fossil chironomid and diatom
              assemblages. Previous preliminary work has also led to the recovery of several
              lake sediment records that extend back past 11,000 years in age and show clear
              evidence of both high and low frequency changes in temperature and effective
              moisture during the transition from glacial to modern climatic conditions
              between 12,000 and 9000 years ago. This project will complete analysis of these
              core sections. The project will then use the existing lake sediment cores and
              new cores collected from climatically sensitive settings to reconstruct changes
              in temperature and effective moisture over the past 9000 years. The project
              will construct records with better than 50 year temporal resolution for both
              high and mid-elevation sites. In addition to the significant multi-centennial
              to millennial variations seen in the glacial to non-glacial transition, the
              project will use previously published data for the past 2000 years to uncover
              evidence of multi-decadal to multi-centennial droughts during the past 9000
              years.  The temporal patterns of variations in California temperature and
              effective moisture will be compared to temporal patterns of variability evident
              in cores from the North Pacific Ocean, North Atlantic Ocean and Greenland Ice
              Cap, in order to help deduce the larger scale causes of long-term variability
              in California climate.  

Long-term climate records are essential to
              anticipating the full range of variability in the severity and duration  of
              long-term drought periods, wet periods and warm and cold periods that can occur
              in California.  The records will help determine if there is long-term
              periodicity in phenomena such as multi-decadal droughts that will make such
              events more predictable. These records of past climate will also help in
              assessing the role of changes in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in driving
              climatic variations in California. Finally, the long-term climatic records
              provided by this project will furnish baseline data on natural variability of
              climate in California that will allow for the detection of truly unusual
              variations that might be attributable to greenhouse warming. The records will
              be of importance for water resource management, forestry and conservation
              management, and climatic change detection and management.      

