              This project applies adaptive optics and laser interferometry to the sensing of
              bound analytes on an optical compact disk. The compact disk contains spots of
              antibodies (for immunological and proteomic biosensors) or complementary DNA
              (for genomic biosensors) arranged in concentric tracks. After exposure to a
              sample containing multiple analytes, the laser scans a single track at a time
              with sampling speeds up to one megasample per second. Bound analytes on the
              spinning disk modulate the phase of the reflected laser light up to a
              Megahertz. This phase is measured using homodyne detection in an adaptive
              interferometer. The key element to the interferometer is an adaptive
              holographic grating (a semi-insulating GaAs heterostructure) that mixes the
              signal (carrying the phase modulation) with a reference beam (local
              oscillator). The adaptive mixer is insensitive to the problems of laser speckle
              and mechanical vibrations that have previously prevented the use of sensitive
              interferometry in this application.

The disk will be fabricated using soft
              lithography and ink-pad stamping. An important goal of the research is to study
              multi-analyte up-scaling from a few up to thousands of different analyzer
              tracks on the disk. The long-range goal of this research would be to ultimately
              assay almost every blood protein in a single 10 p1 sample without the need for
              analyte amplification.

For the same reason that shot-noise-limited
              interferometers can detect sub-picometer surface displacements, this Biosensor
              CD can detect approximately 300 bound analyte molecules per spot per track.
              Such sensitivity can only be achieved by combining the high sampling rate of
              the spinning disk with the high sensitivity of adaptive interferometry. The
              experimental program presented here, if successful, would represent a
              significant improvement in the ability of biosensors to detect many
              low-concentration analytes.

