              9805475
McDonnell

Understanding and predicting streamwater chemical response
              to perturbations such as climate change and non-point source pollutants
              requires knowledge of the hydrologic mechanisms controlling streamflow
              generation and biogeochemical mechanisms influencing solutes transport. 
              Despite the nearly two decades of intensive research in small catchments, no
              quantitative framework has emerged that specifies the measurements necessary to
              characterize a given catchment or even provides a context for the
              interpretation of field measurements.  The proposed project seeks to develop
              such a framework through a combined modeling and field effort.

Previous
              research has indicated that hillslope-riparian reservoir mixing may be the most
              important control on stream chemistry at the watershed scale.  We will conduct
              a field-modeling study of hillslope-riparian zone mixing at 3 catchments
              (Panola Mountain, Sleeper River and Maimai New Zealand) spanning a wide range
              of geomorphic and hydrologic conditions.  Our research is based on realizations
              that:  (1) the hillslope may not contribute much directly to streamflow during
              storm events, (2) the chemical signature of the hillslope is not apparent in
              the stream during events, thus challenging our traditional view of the stream
              as integrator of the catchment, and (3) we may not be able to construct whole
              (including the hillslope) catchment models based upon stream chemistry and
              hydrology for prediction of future conditions.  The ultimate goal is objective
              delineation of catchments (based on prescribed measurements) into homogeneous
              reservoirs to provide a general methodology to interpret field observations and
              develop predictive models.  The physical connections among these reservoirs
              define the hydrologic flowpaths in the catchment.  By working at multiple
              catchments, we hope to be able to discern patterns that are not specific to one
              catchemtn.

Uncertainty analysis will be used.  Our objectives are to:  (i)
              develop a new TOPMODEL-based hydrogeochemical reservoir mixing to test our
              perceptual understanding of flow pathways and runoff production mechanism,
              consistent with hydrometric measurements, (ii) determine what catchment factors
              determine hillslope influence on stream chemistry using a watershed
              cross-comparison, (iii) quantify when hillslope water becomes riparian water,
              (iv) develop a data-based reservoir mixing model with robust structure to apply
              generally to upland catchments.  This study represents an innovative attempt to
              link a reservoir mixing, model constrained by both isotope and geochemical data
              within a topographically-driven hydrologic model at the catchment scale.

