              ABSTRACT
CTS-0077520
Rumchitzki, Davis S.
CUNY City
              College

Atherosclerosis is by far the leading cause of death, bot above and
              below age 65, in the United States and all western countries.  Atherosclerosis
              is a disorder mainly of the large, relatively thick-walled arteries; smaller
              arteries and veins under normal conditions are spared.  Atherosclerosis appears
              to begin with the accumulation of extracellular lipoproteins in the artery wall
              and develops into lesions.  This accumulation is often associated with high
              plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) concentrations and thus lipoprotein
              transport into and accumulations within the artery wall is the focus of intense
              study.  We hypothesize that qualitative and quantitative vessel-vessel
              differences in these processes underlie their different susceptibilities to
              atherosclerosis.  Our group has develop a set of detailed theories, portions of
              which seem to be vessel-independent, that explains much of the data on these
              processes in large arteries.  What is lacking is a detailed understanding of
              how they differ in other tissues.  To begin to fill this gap we propose an
              experimental/theoretical study of LDL transport into and accumulation in the
              valve leaflet, a tissue whose structure is radically different from the
              aorta's, but which also accumulates LIPID AT HIGH PLASMA LDL.  We present
              preliminary data suggesting an exciting new hypothesis that, even in the
              absence of an internal elastic laminar, valve endothelial cells lay down a very
              thin matrix layer that is much sparser than the bulk of its extracellular
              matrix; if present, this layer would play a central role in filtration and
              subendothelial tracer transport (goal 2 below).  In addition, data on the
              transmural pressure dependence of these processes are inconclusive, and we
              propose to address this in the aortic context.

Our specific goals are:

1.
              To understand the effect of transmural pressure on the transport and
              accumulation of LDL cholesterol in the artery wall in light of the observation
              that atherosclerosis-prone vessels live at high transmural pressures and of the
              apparently inconsistent historic data on pressure dependence.
2. To
              experimentally/theoretically study filtration and tracer convective-diffusion
              in valve leaflets; to explain in large variation in Tompkins et al's (Circ.
              Res., 64 1213, 1989) experimental tracer concentration vs depth profiles in
              valves;
3. To couple goal 2's results to our extracellular lipid liposome
              formation and growth kinetic models to explain the liposome size distributions
              in valves of cholesterol-fed rabbits.  We advance a new hypothesis that
              liposome accumulation kinetics are tissue-independent and that the valve-aorta
              difference in lipid accumulation thus lies in their different transendothelial
              LDL transport.

Successful completion of the project would lead to a better
              understanding of how vessel structure and conditions, such as transmural
              pressures, to which the vessel is exposed influence the transport into and
              accumulation of large molecules (with lipoprotein cholesterol the major
              molecule of interest) in vessel walls.  We hypothesize that this will underlie
              the vessel's relative susceptibility to atherosclerosis.  This knowledge could
              be useful in the long term in potentially selecting a vessel, in a
              patient-specific way, to be sued as a bypass for clogged coronary artery. 

