              SES 99-11008 - Alexei B. Kojevnikov (American Institute of Physics)
              
"Ideological Practices of Science"  

The project will investigate, in a
              series of historical case studies, the uses and functions of ideologies in the
              practice of scientific research. The problem of science and ideology has been
              discussed most often in a restricted form, considering their possible
              interactions as negative, distorting influences and contrasting on this basis
              the experiences of science under pluralistic and politically democratic regimes
              to that under this century's most violent dictatorships. The underlying
              assumption behind such an opposition -- the idea that science not only should
              but also can be effectively protected from ideological and political influences
              -- is no longer considered an adequate description of the social practices of
              science even in democratic contexts. A new conceptual approach thus needs to be
              developed, one capable of analyzing and comparing scientific developments in
              different societies and regimes without relying upon the ideology of pure
              science.  

The project's six case studies deal with very diverse scientific
              experiences in a wide range of historical settings, representing three major
              cultural areas -- European, American, and Russian and a sequence of changing
              political and ideological contexts throughout the twentieth century. Each study
              concentrates on a particular important episode or phenomenon, mostly taken from
              the experience of physics, as the quintessential "hard" science. They are
              united by a common theme, the role of ideology in scientific practice, and by a
              common approach developed over the course of several years of previous
              research. The "big" ideologies of nationalism and internationalism were
              simultaneously at work in divided Europe after World War I (the rise of Niels
              Bohr's network from a neutral base in Copenhagen) and in the Cold-War
              scientific rivalry between the two superpowers (the parallel development of
              masers and lasers in the 1 950s). Another case reconsiders the phenomenon of
              ideological discussions in Stalinist Russia, including the paradigmatic Lysenko
              event of 1948. An example of an academic ideology is represented by the concept
              of "research school," born in Wilhelmian Germany and later borrowed by a few
              other academic cultures. Ideologically-laden scientific concepts and theories
              are analyzed in the debates over the interpretation of quantum mechanics in
              Weimar Germany and in the tension between individualist and collectivist
              approaches in solid state physics, from the 1930s through the 1950s.

A
              common analytical approach develops out of the discussion of these different
              cases, which promises a wider applicability. As a theoretical concept, ideology
              is used here in its nonpejorative meaning and is neither opposed to scientific
              practice, nor conflated with it, but considered a part, and a substantial one,
              of practice. Besides "big" ideologies, the study also pays attention to more
              specific ideologies of particular social and professional groups, including
              scientists themselves. The specific patterns of interactions between science
              and ideology are analyzed on the levels of the macro-politics of science, the
              micro-sociology of research communities, and also in scientific concepts and
              theories. As a whole, the project will contribute to the growing understanding
              that the real-life complexities and varieties of the social and political
              interactions of science cannot be reduced to a choice between two simple
              polarities, either the essential social reductionism or the ultimate
              independence of scientific knowledge.

