                   The explosive growth of computer networks, combined with rapid and
              unpredictable developments in ap-plications and workloads, has rendered network
              service inference and performance prediction increasingly de-manding and
              intractable tasks. Nonetheless, end-systems must have knowledge of internal
              network traffic con-ditions and servicing in order to validate, predict, or
              enhance performance capabilities required by demanding applications. Network
              service providers also have a great need for gauging the performance of their
              own sub-systems without recourse to global strategies. Without special-purpose
              network support, the only alternative is to indirectly infer dynamic network
              characteristics using edge-based network traffic processing.
     The INCITE
              (InterNet Control and Inference Tools at the Edge) Project focuses experts from
              the fields of
networking, digital signal processing, and applied mathematics
              towards the goal of characterizing network ser-vice based solely on edge-based
              measurement at hosts and/or edge routers. This project blends recent work in
              multifractal traffic modeling, quality of service (QoS) measurement, and
              network tomography to develop a unique and innovative framework for network
              service inference. The INCITE Project will develop new al-gorithms and
              implementations using the latest in DSP-driven network processor technology,
              providing a vital step towards better managing and understanding of Internet
              performance. Our effort consists of three closely inter-related research
              thrusts:
1. Multifractal Traffic and Path Modeling: We will develop new,
              highly accurate tools for analyzing,
modeling, and measuring the dynamics of
              network connections and end-to-end paths from the edge. Our
approach to
              inferring the competing cross-traffic load on a path utilizes an innovative
              exponentially spaced
probing sequence that is inspired by the theory of
              multifractal random processes. These probing packet
chirps balance the
              trade-off between overwhelming the network with probes and obtaining statistics
              rich
enough for accurate estimates.
2. Multiclass Service Inference: We will
              develop a framework for clients to assess a network's core QoS
functionalities
              based on external and passive observations. Using the theory of traffic
              envelopes, maximum
likelihood estimation, and hypothesis testing, clients will
              be able to assess a broad set of the network's
multi-class control mechanisms
              such as the service disciplines, link sharing rules and parameters,
              and
policing parameters.
3. Unicast Network Tomography: We will develop a
              novel methodology for network tomography that pro-vides
link-level performance
              characterization of networks of arbitrary topologies based on unicast
              traffic
measurements at a the network edge. A new network modeling framework
              based on factor graphs will
enable the statistical inference of link-level
              service parameters (e.g., losses, delays, and service strate-gies).  A key
              strength of our envisioned methodology is that it will enable scalable,
              real-time tomography algorithms deployable on hosts and/or edge routers.
    
              The INCITE Project will develop the theoretical underpinnings of network
              multifractal traffic processing,
service inference, and link-level
              characterization for complex, large-scale networks, and lead to
              computation-ally efficient and scalable service inference algorithms based only
              on traffic measurement at the network edge.  Moreover, in collaboration with a
              leading provider of broadband Internet bandwidth (Enron) and an innovator in
              networked signal processing hardware (Texas Instruments), we will build a
              complete prototype implementation of the proposed algorithms, including modules
              for multifractal traffic and path modeling, service inference, and network
              tomography. This reference implementation will provide a first-of-its-kind
              platform for obtaining a deep understanding of large networks and enable
              principled designs of future network architectures, algorithms, and models.
