              Oxygenic photosynthesis occurs in plants, cyanobacteria, and algae and is
              essential in the maintenance of life on earth. This type of photosynthesis
              requires the concerted action of two light-absorbing reaction centers, which
              convert light energy into a transmembrane charge separation. One of these
              reaction centers, photosystem II catalyzes the oxidation of water and produces
              molecular oxygen and reduced plastoquinone. Photosystem II accumulates the four
              oxidizing equivalents necessary for oxygen production at a manganese-containing
              catalytic site. The sequentially oxidized forms of the catalytic site are
              called the S states. Photosystem II consists both of integral,
              membrane-spanning subunits and of extrinsic subunits, that do not span the
              membrane. A subset of these extrinsic subunits is known to influence
              light-driven electron and proton transfer events. The extrinsic subunit known
              as the manganese stabilizing protein, MSP, prevents loss of manganese from the
              PSII active site and is required for optimal rates of oxygen evolution. In this
              multidisciplinary project, vibrational spectroscopy will be used to obtain
              detailed information about structural changes occurring during the S state
              cycle. The ultimate goal is to determine how oxygen-oxygen bond formation
              occurs in photosynthetic oxygen evolution. In addition, vibrational
              spectroscopy will be employed to test a possible mechanism by which MSP may
              influence water oxidation. Finally, the idea that MSP changes conformation or
              folds when it binds to the PSII reaction center will be tested using X-ray
              scattering. These experiments will provide new information about the function
              and assembly of complex membrane proteins.
