              0080738
Shi

The objective of this proposal is to develop innovative IV-VI
              mid-infrared vertical-cavity surface-emitting (VCSEL) lasers.  Results from the
              first IV-VI VCSEL that the PI's recently demonstrated were very promising. 
              Further research and development on such lasers could lead to continuous wave
              (cw) room temperature operation that will substantially advance the state of
              the art of mid-IR diode lasers to meet the application needs.

Mid-infrared
              lasers have large market potential and high academic interests.  Desired
              performance requirements for diode lasers that are not currently available
              include continuous wave (cw) operation at room temperature, spectral purity,
              and high output powers with good beam quality.  The IV-VI quantum well devices
              to be studied under this proposal will have key advantages to meet these
              needs.

Among narrow gap semiconductors, IV-VI materials such as PbSe have
              suppressed Auger non-radiative loss (by an order of magnitude over the best
              III-V quantum wells) and much lighter electron and hole masses that lead to
              further reduction of the lasing thresholds.  Previously these have enabled lead
              salt lasers to set and maintain the records for maximum operating temperatures
              for both pulsed and cw operation among all mid-IR semiconductor diodes.  They
              also provide advantages of wide temperature and current tuning because of the
              strong bandgap energy dependence on temperature.

Especially exciting is the
              prospect of IV-VI quantum well (QW) vertical cavity surface emitting lasers
              (VCSELS) on BaF2 [111] substrates, which will have significantly improved heat
              dissipation, an excellent beam quality with a circular and
              near-diffraction-limited single-mode, very low threshold that could allow room
              temperature cw operation.  High quality alternating BaF2 and Pbl-x SrxSe
              materials can be grown together.  Because of the large contrast of refractive
              indices, distributed Bragg reflector (DBR) with only 3-pair quarter wavelength
              layers will provide reflectivity of nearly 100% with very broad bandwidth.  Due
              to the broad DBR bandwidth, the alignment of the cavity resonance with the gain
              peak is not as difficult as in other semiconductor DBRs, which allows for a
              wide range of temperature tuning.  Such broadband mirrors also eliminate mode
              hopping, reduce the fundamental lateral spread of the cavity mode and thus
              allow an extremely low threshold to be achieved.  Recently the PI's have
              demonstrated the first IV-VI VCSELs and the initial results are very
              encouraging

In the proposed research graduate students will be exposed to
              diverse experimental techniques and will develop an excellent grasp of
              cutting-edge technology.  The combination of nano-scale material science,
              opto-electronics and processing technology provides an excellent opportunity
              for education.
***

