              This research is for a systematic study on one important type of complex
              systems, namely chemically cross-linked polymer networks.  Information about
              the dynamics of these systems will be generated experimentally by broad-band
              dielectric relaxation spectroscopy and dynamic mechanical spectroscopy, and
              will be verified against the appropriate models.  The proposed research adds a
              major new dimension to the earlier studies of dynamics in polymer networks in
              that the systems selected for study dimension to the earlier studies of
              dynamics in polymer networks in that the systems selected for study exhibit, in
              addition to the transverse dipole moment component, a persistent cumulative
              dipole moment along the chain contour that can be relaxed via the normal mode
              process.  This part of the dipole moment of the polymer molecules is present
              when the repeat unit lacks a plane of symmetry perpendicular to the chain
              contour.  For a sequence of n such units, the dipole vector must correlate with
              the displacement vector and thence from the studies of the normal processes one
              can determine not only the relaxation time but also the mean square end-to-end
              distance.  Therefore, the network-forming materials chosen for study will have
              a unique characteristic in that their molecular architecture will be conducive
              to the detection of the entire hierarchy of molecular motions, ranging from
              local to segmental to global.  It is anticipated that the controlled variation
              in the structure and topography will result in the ability to tailor-make
              networks with desired characteristics whose response can be varied by a
              selective engagement on the time scales shorter or longer than the
              characteristic time of each dynamic process.  Ultimately, it will be possible
              to realize the macroscopic properties of the networks by molecular
              concepts.
%%5
The proposed research will have implications broader than the
              aforementioned goals.  This is so because the interplay of dynamics of various
              length scales is crucial to the behavior of many other complex systems, such as
              self-assemblies and various nanostructures, as well as to the host of
              bio-related issues that range from gene therapy, protein dynamics and protein
              folding to the loops and cruciforms that affect the local and global dynamics
              of DNA's.  The integration of research and education will be realized through
              lectures and laboratory courses for undergraduate and graduate students.  The
              proposed work will also contribute to the enhancement of ethnic diversity by
              accommodating a number of under-represented minority students from New York
              City high schools under the aegis of the YES (Youth in Engineering and Science)
              summer program at Polytechnic.

