              Chemistry (12)
In spite of the many types of kinetic and thermodynamic
              information available through electrochemical techniques, few undergraduates
              have the opportunity to carry out such experiments. This project seeks to
              address this deficiency through the acquisition of a computer controlled
              potentiostat. Use of the instrument is being implemented throughout the
              chemistry curriculum beginning with Organic Chemistry and culminating in
              undergraduate research. The project draws from a model developed by Holder at
              Appalachian State University and adapts experiments from the research
              literature. Experiments are selected which complement the material being
              covered in a particular course, and which illustrate the usefulness of
              electrochemical techniques for understanding molecular properties. The project
              is particularly benefiting first generation college students, who comprise
              approximately 40% of Coe's entering classes. An advisory committee of
              electrochemistry professionals (from the University of Iowa, Cornell College,
              and Collins Printed Circuits) has been formed to assist in evaluation and in
              the development of new experiments suitable for use in undergraduate
              laboratories. The advisory committee includes expertise from industry,
              biochemistry, material science, and environmental engineering; the new
              experiments being developed include these interdisciplinary areas. Students are
              expected to gain a broad understanding of the use of electrochemistry to solve
              chemical problems. Dissemination will include presentations at regional and
              national meetings, publication in the chemical education literature and
              research literature, and creation of an electrochemical education Web page.


