              This grant will provide an immersion experience for Prof. Jerome Spanier and Dr.
              Rong Kong at one of the premier Biomedical Optics institutions in the world,
              the Beckman Laser Institute and Medical Clinic (BLIMC) at the University of
              California at Irvine (UCI).  A major thrust of the research program at BLIMC is
              to understand how light propagates in heterogeneous tissue.  This understanding
              is essential to the use of the laser as an effective non-invasive diagnostic
              and therapeutic tool.  The immersion of a small group of mathematical
              scientists at UCI, where there is access to an elaborate training program that
              prepares physical scientists for work in photomedicine, will deepen
              understanding of basic biological questions and provide accurate quantitative
              comparisons of Monte Carlo-based computer algorithms with clinical
              measurements.  The latter is key to the development of real-time imaging
              techniques for non-invasive, early detection and
treatment of cancer, based on
              the use of laser probes.

Benefits to be derived from the grant experience
              include: a. acceleration of the education of a cadre of mathematical scientists
              in the biology and medicine essential to an effective collaboration between
              applied
mathematicians and biomedical scientists; b. cultivation of a rich
              platform for additional training of mathematicians and scientists in the
              emerging field of tissue optics; c. enhancement of an important
              multidisciplinary research program aimed at real-time imaging of heterogeneous
              tissue using hand held
laser probes in clinical settings; d. dissemination of
              new, important mathematical and computational methods for detection and
              treatment of disease through publications in the biomedical and applied
              mathematics literature and oral presentations at conferences attended by both
              mathematicians and biomedical scientists.

This year of intense interaction
              will be followed by an ongoing collaboration between the two universities aimed
              at substantively improving their joint capability to quantify optical
              heterogeneities in tissues.  This IGMS project is jointly supported by the MPS
              Office of  Multidisciplinary Activities (OMA) and the Division of  Mathematical
              Sciences (DMS).

