              
This action is to provide partial support for an International Workshop on
              Seismic 
Stability of Tailings Dams, being jointly organized and sponsored by
              the National 
Science Foundation, the Office of Surface Mining (a bureau of the
              U.S. Department of 
the Interior), and the Mine Safety and Health
              Administration (an agency within the 
Department of Labor). Tailings dams are
              the residue of the milling process used to 
extract materials of interest from
              mined ores. They are characterized by hydraulically 
placed fills held in place
              by an embankment. Failure of tailings dams due to earthquakes 
has occurred
              many times in the past in several Pacific Rim earthquake-prone countries,
              
causing significant loss of property and human lives, as well as severe
              environmental 
problems. 
According to the most current data supplied to the
              National Inventory of Dams, there are 
860 coal-mining related dams in the
              United States. Of these, 232 are considered to have 
a high hazard-potential by
              FEMA's hazard rating system, indicating that failure would be 
reasonably
              likely to result in loss of life and significant property damage. The vast
              
majority of these high-hazard-potential dams are coal refuse tailings dams
              located in the 
Appalachian Coal Field. A few are over 200 m (600 feet) high.
              Failure of such a 
structure due to earthquake loading would be catastrophic.
              Even though considerable 
progress has been made in seismic design and analysis
              of earth dams, little research has 
been conducted on the seismic stability of
              tailings dams. Past research has shown that 
coal waste materials have
              mechanical properties quite different from that of most soils. 
The structure
              and construction method of tailings dams are very different from 
conventional
              earth dams. Therefore, there is an urgent need for research to investigate 
the
              stability of tailings dams under earthquake loading, and to develop seismic
              design 
procedures suitable for this unique type of structure. 
This workshop
              will bring together US and international experts to discuss the critical
              
issues involved. The objectives are: 1) to summarize the current
              state-of-the-art, and the 
state-of-the-practice in the design and seismic
              analyses of tailings dams; 2) to identify 
research needs; 3) to facilitate
              communication and collaboration between researchers, 
government regulatory
              agencies, and practicing engineers. 
Within the limits of the required
              expertise, the organizers will include underrepresented 
minorities. The
              workshop will be hosted by the Department of Civil Engineering, Case 
Western
              Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio on 22-23 May 2003. The workshop
              
proceedings will be posted online on the workshop web site and the web sites
              of the 
government regulatory agencies. 
