              Pnueli, Emerson, and Sistla
CCR-0205571, CCR-0205483 and CCR-0205365
"Towards
              a Seamless Process for the Development of Embedded Systems"


Embedded
              systems are of vital economic importance and are literally
becoming
              ubiquitous. They have already become an integral component of
safety critical
              systems involving aviation, military,
telecommunications, and process control
              applications.  Interest in
embedded systems is growing further due to the
              expectation that they
will become a key component of many commonplace consumer
              appliances.
Consumers will expect levels of reliability and
              predictability
associated with the very best brands of cars, televisions,
              and
refrigerators. Glitches, crashes, and general erratic behavior of
              the
sort seen with prior generations of consumer PC software products will
be
              unacceptable for these embedded applications.  It thus becomes
crucial that
              these embedded software systems satisfy high levels of
correctness criteria,
              well above those of today's large software
systems, which are often highly
              error-prone.

Besides the requirement of a new standard of functional
              correctness,
embedded systems pose additional challenges which were not
              fully
addressed by previous validation and verification approaches.
              These
include adequate guarantees of timeliness, low or controlled
              power
consumption, and low or controlled memory utilization.  With the
spread
              of embedded systems, and the need to guarantee an acceptable
level of
              functionality and reliability of the applications they are
embedded in, the
              industry needs an effective and reliable development
process. Due to market
              constraints, such a process should also support
a fast turn-around time as
              well as enable the easy design of many
customized variations of the same
              product.

This project is developing the foundation for a seamless
              design
process for embedded systems as described below.  In particular, it
              is
developing:

 A formal visual language for requirements, including
              behavioral,
 temporal, and TPM constraints;

 A methodology for the
              automatic synthesis of an executable
 specification from the requirement
              specification language;

 A methodology for the verification of the
              intermediate and
 distributed representation of the systems against
              requirements;

 A methododology for automatic code-distribution of

              specifications, possibly with some architectural constraints
 provided by the
              user;

 A model for representing hardware/software co-design
 platforms that
              enables modeling of both loosely- and tightly-coupled
 components as well as
              compositional reasoning about them;

 Algorithms for automatically generating
              
 architecture-optimized code from executable specifications;

 Methods for
              translation validation of the
 generated code and run-time validation on the
              system using
  monitors;

 The Design of a profiler process which analyzes
              machine code,
 computes the resulting figures for time, power, and memory,
              and
 back-associate these figures with their executable specification

              sources, enabling early-stage analysis of these requirements.

The impact of
              the project is to streamline and significantly
accelerate the time to market
              of embedded applications of both new
products and revisions and customizations
              of existing product lines.
Another impact is to upgrade the level of
              dependability and
predictability of embedded software to new standards,
              compatible and
comparable to those expected from the best brands of
              consumer
products.

