                   Ad-hoc networks are a new networking paradigm, in which the network nodes
              create a network "on demand." There is a number of characteristic attributes
              associated with the ad-hoc networking approach: highly dynamic network
              architecture (nodes join and leave the network often and without warning),
              totally distributed architecture, and multi-hop routing.
     Due to the high
              reconfiguration rate of the ad-hoc network architectures, many, if not most of
              the conventional routing protocols do not perform well in this type of
              environment. Consequently, a number of novel routing protocols, specifically
              suited for the ad-hoc networks, were proposed. A new Internet Engineering Task
              Force working group, the MANET Working Group, has been established to address
              the issues of routing in ad-hoc networks.
     One topic that has not been
              adequately covered in the context of routing in ad-hoc networks is the issue of
              QoS-routing for multimedia applications, in general, and the issue of routing
              for real-time traffic, in particular. More specifically, an ad-hoc network may
              undergo frequent and unpredictable changes in the network topology, which
              results in relatively short lifetime of the network paths. Thus, paths become
              frequently invalid, and, what is more of a problem, there may be little warning
              of a path going down. Although this might not be a substantial problem for non
              real-time applications, such frequent path invalidation will most often lead to
              severe degradation of real-time communication. Thus, a mechanism is needed that
              will compensate for this behavior of ad-hoc networks.  
     A number of
              approaches have been previously proposed in the technical literature. For
              instance, maintaining a secondary route, so that when the primary route fails,
              the system can fall back onto the secondary route as soon as the failure is
              detected, has proven a good strategy. However, the secondary route mechanism is
              insufficient in many cases, as the state of paths in the network is usually
              highly correlated. Thus, failure of the primary path usually means that the
              secondary path may not be available as well. Also, the change-over time may
              last too long , so as to cause a perceptible degradation of the signal quality
              during this period.
     One characteristic of the ad-hoc networks is that
              there are many paths between a source and a destination. Thus, a mechanism that
              takes advantage of these multitude of paths is bound to perform better (i.e.,
              in supporting QoS for real-time traffic) than the above two-path approach.
              Moreover, rather than selecting a single path at any time to use for a specific
              connection, a better scheme would be to always distribute the information among
              multiple paths, possibly with some correlation between the information on the
              various paths, so as to protect against failure of some subset of the paths.
              The proposed mechanism thus consists of four steps: i) discovery of multiple
              paths between the source and the destination nodes and evaluation of the
              correlation in the paths' availability; ii) selection of a subset of the paths
              into an Active Path Set (APS), based on some "goodness'' measures (such as the
              expected availability of the path, the capacity of the path, the delay and
              jitter of the path, etc), and a scheme that allows to evaluate these measures
              for the network paths; iii) a method of coding and spreading the information
              among the paths
(including matching the paths with the specific requirements
              of a traffic type); iv) a scheme to monitor the APS paths, estimate their QoS
              parameters, and update the APS based on the state of the paths and their
              correlation.
     The above approach is general and can be applied to a
              variety of real-time traffic types. However, to make the study more realistic,
              the researchers chose video communication as the real-time test application.
              Thus, the researchers intend to propose a specific set of algorithms/protocols
              that addresses the four steps as outlined above, in the context of video
              communication. For instance, they will determine what are the parameters
              relevant to transmission of compressed video traffic over unstable paths and
              propose schemes to code video source into multiple correlated descriptions that
              can be spread over multiple paths.
     The researchers intend to integrate
              the above multi-path transport scheme for video traffic into a comprehensive
              simulation of the ad-hoc networking environment, that will include a radio
              propagation model, nodal mobility model, MAC protocol, and a routing algorithm
              (to discover the network paths). The researchers will gather performance
              measures from the simulation that will allow them to determine the quality of
              video at the application level depending on the parameters of the models used.
              The researchers expect to be able to answer questions, ranging from the very
              basic issue of viability of supporting real-time traffic in an ad-hoc
              networking environment to what type of routing protocol is most suitable for
              real-time traffic.
     The research will be performed through both analytical
              and simulation tools. In particular, for the simulation, the researchers will
              use advanced models for prediction of the radio propagation environment, the
              user mobility model, and the traffic generation model.

