              Ensembles of distributed communication, computation, and storage resources, also
              known as "Computational Grids", are emerging as a critical platform for
              high-performance computing. Grids are used effectively to support runs of
              distributed applications at a large enough scale to provide new disciplinary
              results to their developers. Researchers in almost every field of science and
              engineering are particularly interested in a class of applications particularly
              well suited to the Grid, scientific simulations where many parameterized
              instances of a give computation are performed. The development of accessible,
              efficient, fault-tolerant Grid-enabled versions of simulation software will
              enable disciplinary scientists to investigate wide-ranging scenarios and to
              obtain new results orders of magnitude faster than is currently
              possible.

Many scientists would like to view large-scale simulations as
              software instruments that support some level of user interaction. This would be
              effective only if simulations can be deployed easily and controlled
              dynamically, i.e. if the computation can be steered. A traditional scenario is
              for the user to steer the simulation based on partial results that evolve
              continuously during execution. The partial results provide an increasingly
              refined indicator of the final results of the simulation and can be used to
              identify mid-execution which parameter sets are most promising. Given the
              potential of wide-area, federated Grid environments to deliver the aggregate
              computational power, data storage and dissemination facilities for large-scale
              simulations, and the need for scientists to steer such computations, it is
              increasingly important to develop performance-efficient and steerable software
              instruments that target the Grid. This project will address the significant
              computer science problems that arise from the need to support steerable
              scientific simulations in large-scale Grid environments.

The project will
              design, develop, and prototype a virtual software instrument as a vehicle for
              designing and prototyping scalable, steerable scientific simulations for the
              Grid. It will use a Monte Carlo simulation program, MCell, as a prototype
              application for development and testing of the virtual instrument. The virtual
              instrument itself will consist of a set of software modules, libraries,
              interfaces, and steering-sensitive scheduling algorithms. The project will have
              impact on both the computer science and disciplinary science communities. It
              will foster new research in computer science through the development of event
              models, performance models, data management strategies, and adaptive scheduling
              and steering algorithms. It will also enable domain scientists to obtain new
              results in neuroscience.

