              
Modern mobile communication systems strive to maximize capacity within the
              system. The capacity of the system to handle multiple subscribers is adversely
              affected by adjacent channel interference (ACI). ACI results from nonlinear
              distortion created by the transmitter power amplifier (PA). This is especially
              problematic for high power base station PAs within the cellular infrastructure.
              Such distortion produces out-of-band signals that interfere with other
              subscribers' reception. Thus ACI, effectively raises the noise floor forcing
              lower bit rates and/or increased transmit power for those subscribers. As
              medium rate data services for internet access are being introduced into the
              cellular systems, higher demands are being placed on both capacity and quality
              of service. For these reasons, minimization of ACI, which requires PA
              linearization in basestation infrastructure, is of great
              importance.

Commercially available state-of-the-art base station PAs use
              feed-forward linearization.  While this method is effective in improving ACI,
              the architecture needs additional components as well as a high power combining.
              These added components, and the losses they introduce in both DC and RF power,
              tend to make PAs based on the feed-forward method both costly and
              inefficient.

Predistortion linearization is another method of linearization.
              This approach is more cost effective than feed-forward linearization, because
              the signal processing is done digitally, and there are no components following
              the PA that waste power. However, the performance of predistortion is generally
              not as good as feed-forward linearization, because a near perfect model of the
              amplifier must be extracted and a predistorter model formulated to counteract
              the distortion mechanisms. One area in which current models are deficient is in
              characterizing memory effects. Memoryless predistortion has been thoroughly
              investigated in the literature, but for high peak-to-average signals, such as
              multicarrier CDMA or OFDM signals, self-heating effects arise, creating delay
              responses in the distortion that manifest themselves as memory effects. In
              general, higher power amplifiers, such as those used in basestations, are more
              susceptible to memory effects than those used in lower power mobile
              equipment.

This proposal will outline a research program that will
              investigate modeling of PA memory effects, as well as linearization of PAs that
              exhibit such effects. The authors propose a research program that will develop
              new methods in PA characterization and modeling, as well as advance the
              state-of-the-art in predistortion linearization to achieve or exceed
              performance levels previously seen only using costly and inefficient
              feed-forward techniques.

