              EIA-0135946
Fortes, Jose A
University of Florida

ITR/SY: Design and
              Simulation of Biologically inspired Nanolattice






This joint project
              between the University of Florida and Purdue University is pursuing scientific
              principles for designing and engineering biologically inspired neuromorphic
              computing architectures using radically new molecular electronic devices and
              biologically inspired, ultra-dense, self-assembled systems. Examples of
              applications of these architectures include unprecedently small and inexpensive
              nanoscale intelligent sensors. The architectures can be used to implement
              neurocomputing models and are well suited for nanotechnologies, thus
              accelerating the development of useful nanotechnology by providing clear
              functional targets for nanodevices.
The team of investigators includes
              computer architects, neurocomputing experts and device physicists working in
              close collaboration along three highly synergistic thrusts. One of the two
              thrusts is focused on advancing the understanding of biologically-inspired
              dynamic information processing systems in order to understand the impact of
              constraints imposed by architectures and technologies on the properties of
              these systems. Another thrust investigates neurocomputing system architectures
              that can be engineered within the constraints of nanotechnologies. The third
              thrust develops a toolbox of novel mechanisms for integration, self-assembly
              and interconnection of nanoscale devices. 
The architectures are investigated
              via formal methods and simulation. Internet resources are used to conduct
              simulation, and to disseminate models, software and other research results. A
              new course, summer internships and educational materials are being developed to
              educate students on the key interdisciplinary aspects and results of the
              project.


