              0225024
Patten

This award supports an eighteen month Japan Society for the
              Promotion of Science (JSPS) Short-Term Postdoctoral Fellowship for John A.
              Patten at the University of North Carolina in Charlotte.  He will be
              collaborating with Professor Wei Gao at Tohoku University in Japan.  They will
              be undertaking research on the machining of ceramics.  This will involve
              working on three different silicon nitride ceramics.  They are a reaction
              bonded silicon nitride from Ceradyne, a hot isostatic press (HIP) material from
              Japan and a commercial HIP material from Allied Signal.  All three materials
              behave similarly when machined, in that they have a ductile to brittle
              transition (with increasing depth of cut or increasing feed) yet all behave
              differently in terms of their machining characteristics.   They will be
              studying the forces, tool wear, cutting edge radius measurements, finished
              surface roughness and then evaluating the material removed (chips) and the
              finished surface for signs of phase transformations using TEM and Raman
              Spectroscopy.

The researchers hope to determine the behavior differences for
              these three materials and then develop methods to exploit their differences. 
              Ductile machining of ceramics is advantageous in that very smooth, crack free
              surfaces can be generated.  Such surfaces are useful for many structural and
              also microelectronic applications.   This project will offer a good opportunity
              to join efforts between the two countries.  Through the exchange of ideas and
              technology, this project will broaden our base of basic knowledge and promote
              international understanding and cooperation.  The researchers plan to publish
              results of the research on the web and report on the findings at scientific
              meetings.


