              Funding is requested for a three year program that will: 1)
              complete
development of a small-scale, portable solid-state retrodirective
              wireless
power transmission (WPT) demonstration system; 2) use the solid-state
              phased
array transmitter and rectenna (rectifier + antenna) developed in task
              1 for
ground testing to determine the phase control of the transmitter.
              This
program will provide a path for the first US non-laboratory demonstration
              of
beamed power in which the transmitted beam will be controlled by a pilot
              beam
from the receiving antenna (a retrodirective system). The program
              will
demonstrate key components of an integrated microwave wireless
              power
transmission system: a phased array transmitter, rectifying receiving
              antenna
(rectenna) and the retrodirective control system. The transmitter
              will
operate at a frequency of 5.8 GHz and will consist of 4 panels, which
              will
allow beam steering in two dimensions. The array will consist of
              640
elements, arranged in 10 subarrays with 64 elements in each
              subarray.
Microstrip patch antenna will be used for low cost fabrication,
              lightweight,
planar structure, and good performance. The patch antennas will
              be located on
one side of the ground plane and the microwave and electronic
              circuits will
be on the other side. The signals are coupled from the circuits
              to antenna
elements through equal-phase microstrips. The distributing
              microstrip
circuits and power dividers are fed by a coaxial line connected to
              the center
of the subarray. The beam control subsystem will use photonics to
              distribute
reference phase information. A circular polarized rectenna will
              be
constructed. Since the power density level at the rectenna array will
              be
fairly low for the proposed experiment, techniques using low
              breakdown
voltage diodes or multi-antenna rectenna elements per diode will
              be
investigated. The ability of the retrodirective phase control system
              to
maintain tight beam steering can be measured by the use of simple
              receivers
located around the rectenna. The measured performance will be
              compared with
theoretical predictions for error sources (phase jitter, phase
              bias,
mechanical misalignment, and amplitude variations) systematically
              introduced
into the system. Beam patterns including side lobes and grating
              lobes will be
measured.
The project will provide a practical demonstration of
              wireless power
transmission as an enabling technology for space solar power
              for both
terrestrial and extraterrestrial application. The program will be
              coordinated
and managed by the Center for Space Power (CSP) at Texas A&M
              University
(TAMU) and conducted by a team that includes researchers from the
              Department
of Electrical Engineering and the Johnson Space Center (JSC). NASA
              support
for this program will include laboratory and test facilities at NASA
              Johnson
Space Center.



   
