              The George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES)
              Program is a project funded under the NSF Major Research Equipment Program. 
              This cooperative agreement, under the NEES Program, establishes a NEES
              large-scale laboratory experimentation equipment site towards real-time hybrid
              seismic testing at the University at Buffalo, The State University of New York,
              Buffalo, NY.  The University at Buffalo will design, construct, install,
              commission, and operate a modular and highly flexible dynamic testing facility
              for large-scale geotechnical and structural earthquake engineering
              experimentation.  This equipment will be operation by September 30, 2004 or
              earlier and will be managed as a national shared-use NEES equipment site, with
              teleobservation and teleoperation capabilities, to provide new earthquake
              engineering research testing capabilities for large structural systems through
              2014.  This NEES equipment site will be connected to the NEES collaboratory
              through the University's vBNS connection, with Gigabit Ethernet capabilities. 
              Shared-use access and training with be coordinated through the NEES Consortium.
               This award is an outcome of the peer review of proposals submitted to program
              solicitation NSF 00-6, "NEES: Earthquake Engineering Research Equipment."  The
              following equipment is provided under this award:  (1) Three 100 ton dynamic
              actuators equipped with dual 400 gpm servovalves, +/- 500 mm stroke, (2) two
              200 ton static actuators with 15 gpm servovalves, +/- 500 mm stroke, (3)
              hydraulic distribution lines and manifolds, (4) surge tank and accumulators,
              (5) two hydraulic pumps of 185 gpm each for continuous operation which along
              with the accumulator banks can provide maximum flow of 1600 gpm for 30 seconds,
              (6) digital control system, (7) test control package for both static and
              dynamic tests, (8) upgrade and expansion of existing data acquisition system to
              accommodate teleobservation, teleoperation, teletransmission, and telestorage,
              (9) data management and processing system to accommodate real-time systems,
              data acquisition, storage, distribution and analysis, and test instrumentation,
              (10) equipment for teleobservation and teleoperation capabilities so that
              experiments on the equipment will be observable and controllable via high
              performance network connections, (11) video imaging equipment with the eventual
              goal of streaming real-time video, and (12) sensors and measurement devices. 
              The experimental facility allows for multiple configurations of full-scale
              component tests combined simultaneously with real-time numerical simulations to
              investigate the seismic behavior of large structural systems incorporating use
              of actuators, reactions walls, strong floor, and shake tables (one moveable). 
              Further, the equipment will be used to develop new hybrid testing algorithms
              for near full-scale/large-scale testing.  The University has committed $4
              million for expansion and infrastructure improvements of the Structural
              Engineering and Earthquake Simulation Laboratory in Ketter Hall on the
              University at Buffalo campus to house the upgraded and new equipment.  This
              expansion includes a new research laboratory area with a strong floor and
              reaction walls, control rooms and offices for training and data processing,
              service areas, storage and office spaces, and a new 40 metric ton crane.  The
              University at Buffalo will integrate this large-scale, high performance testing
              equipment into its research program and undergraduate and graduate curricula,
              provide training opportunities for outside researchers through on site courses,
              host visiting scholars, and develop a web-based teleoperation simulator of the
              NEES equipment.
