              This proposal is designed to investigate the elastic response and ultrasonic
              attenuation of a wide variety of "glasslike crystals" (materials that
              simultaneously reflect both crystalline and glasslike properties).  The
              scientific issues that will be addressed include: (a) the relationship between
              inclusion compounds, quasicrystals, and structural glasses, (b) are tunneling
              states (which are typically found in glasses at low temperatures) intrinsic to
              inclusion compounds and/or quasicrystals, and (c) structure-property
              relationships - to what extent can various structural features be used to
              predict the elastic properties of a given material?  This research project will
              use Resonant Ultrasound Spectroscopy (RUS) to probe the elastic properties of
              the materials under investigation. RUS is a novel technique for determining the
              elastic moduli of solids, based on the measurement of the resonances of a
              freely vibrating body.  The ultrasonic attenuation of the materials will be
              measured using a standard pulse-echo technique.  This proposal will contribute
              toward the development of a strong solid-state program at The University of
              Mississippi.  Both advanced undergraduate and graduate students will gain
              in-depth experience in ultrasound experiments and the techniques of low
              temperature physics.

"Ordinary" materials are either crystals (with
              long-range order, i.e., the atoms are arranged in a periodic array) or glasses
              (with no long-range order).  This proposal will investigate the properties of
              some "extraordinary" materials such as inclusion compounds and quasicrystals. 
              These are materials that simultaneously display both crystalline and glasslike
              properties.  The project will focus on the elastic properties of these
              remarkable solids, using a relatively new technique, Resonant Ultrasound
              Spectroscopy (RUS).  A study of materials that display the unusual combination
              of glasslike and crystalline features is expected to have an impact on two
              fronts.  First, the investigation of the glasslike properties found in these
              materials is expected to lead to a better understaanding of the origin of
              glassy behavior.  Since these materials are of interest for technological
              (thermoelectric) applications, a better understanding of their properties is
              essential for the design of materials with superior properties. Secondly, this
              research will contribute to the training of young scientists at the
              undergraduate and graduate level in Mississippi, who will gain in-depth
              experience in the field of condensed-matter physics.

