              The purpose of this workshop is to bring together experts studying ice,
              evolution, biological preservation, ancient life, and astrobiology to assess
              our current knowledge of life in ancient ice, and to discuss future research
              and collaborations that would extend our knowledge in this area.  A surprising
              number and variety of microorganisms have been recovered from the interior of
              glacial ice cores, dating back beyond 400,000 years.  Researchers have
              performed systematic surveys for bacteria, fungi, algae, vascular plants (as
              pollen), and viruses in samples of ancient ice cores.  Glacial ice is a natural
              air-sampling and preservation matrix.  Through geological epochs
              wind-transported microorganisms have been trapped within these matrices.  Thus,
              glacial ice provides a unique global source of microorganisms which, in turn,
              presents a view of both contemporary and ancient fungal, bacterial, and viral
              diversity. Profiles of successively older ice strata will extend temporal and
              spatial assessments of microbial biodiversity to geologic time frames.  The
              microorganisms might then be utilized in subsequent studies as bioindicators of
              global change with respect to climate, geology and human activity.  In
              addition, species detected across a continuous chronological sequence can be
              utilized to study phylogenic, mechanisms of longevity, dormancy and ecological
              relevance.  Finally, developed and tested protocols may contribute to future
              searches for microorganisms in extraterrestrial ice (e.g., ice from the Moon,
              Mars, Europa, comets, etc.).  The proposed workshop will engage in active
              discussion of life in ancient ice and discuss current research trends.  The
              workshop will also serve as a medium for discussion of the methodological
              approaches needed for microbial detection in these ancient matrices.  Various
              approaches, all involving fungi, bacteria, and viruses, will focus on assessing
              diversity in both time and space.  Workshop presentations and discussions will
              serve to generate recommendations for future research and for improvements in
              methodologies.  Ultimately all information will be disseminated through a
              workshop report, workshop summary books, and Internet information sites.


