              This project is divided into two parts. The objective of the first part is to
              develop a theory of market selection, which would determine the methods of
              forecasting and information gathering that are conducive to survival in a
              market setting.  The objective of the second part is to develop a descriptive
              ethical theory that may be used to explain contribution to public goods, voting
              turnout in large elections and anomalies observed in experiments. 

One of
              the objectives of the theory of market selection is to examine influential
              ideas in economics such as that agents with correct beliefs will drive agents
              with incorrect beliefs out of the market. The results obtained so far motivate
              a study of this claim in different market settings. They also motivate an
              analysis of apparently similar (but, in fact, quite different) ideas such as
              that better informed agents will drive out of the market poorly informed
              agents.
This project also seeks to determine the forecasting methods that, if
              employed, would tend to dominate the market. The idea is to assume that agents
              use dif-ferent forecasting methods to predict the probabilities of future
              events and then determine which agents would accumulate more wealth. So,
              instead of evaluating forecasting methods from an axiomatic viewpoint as usual
              in econometric theory, it is proposed to determine which forecasting methods
              should become predomi-nant in the market in the sense that the agents who
              adopted these methods would influence prices.

The second part of this
              proposal constructs a model of voting turnout in large elections which should
              provide comparative statics that are consistent with observation and an
              explanation of vote choice as a function of factors like uncertainty about the
              distribution of preference types, costs of voting, asymmetric information and
              electoral rules.  In a large election, voters cannot be motivated solely by the
              consequences of their vote because a single vote is not likely to change the
              outcome of the election. A motivation for voting may be the desire to act
              ethically. The project develops an ethical theory that would explain
              significant turnout in elections, but that could also be tested and applied
              outside the realm of elections. A starting point for this theory is rule
              utilitarianism. 

