              The project concerns deterministic and random conformal dynamical systems. This
              includes the theory of conformal iterated function systems (IFS) founded by the
              proposers , rational functions of the Riemann sphere and entire and meromorphic
              functions. We propose to study conformal IFS in a Hilbert space, in particular
              to examine the transfinite dimensions of the limit sets . Extending the work
              with A. Zdunik to the dimensions greater than 2, we propose to deal with the
              Hausdorff dimension of the harmonic measure of the limit set (whose closure is
              a topological Cantor set) of an IFS. Developing our rigidity investigations we
              intend to prove the geometrical rigidity of higher dimensional limits sets
              whose closures are topological disks.  We intend to provide necessary and
              sufficient conditions for conformal measures of regular IFS to satisfy the
              doubling property and as an application we would present a characterization of
              all subsets of natural numbers which generate the continued fraction systems
              with conformal measures satisfying the doubling property. Passing to rational
              functions we propose to deal with no-recurrent maps (more precisely, the
              critical points contained in the Julia sets are assumed to be non-recurrent).
              We would like to work on the proof of equality of the Hausdorff dimension and
              box dimension of these maps, to study various definitions of pressure and the
              escape rates. Employing the concept of affine laminations, we propose to
              develop together with M. Lyubich the thermodynamic formalism of semi-hyperbolic
              rational functions. Together with J. Kotus and A. Zdunik we propose to explore
              invariant and geometric (Hausdorff, packing) measures for the members of the
              exponential family, as well as meromorphic functions fitting into Walters'
              thermodynamic formalism. We intend to deal with recently emerged topic of
              quantization dimension relating its theory to the multifractal formalism. Our
              last sub-project concerns geometric measures of random IFS, in particular
              concerning the existence of an exact
packing measure function.

We propose
              to continue and develop our ongoing research involving measures of various
              kinds-Hausdorff, packing, conformal, Gibbs states, invariant measures
              absolutely continuous with respect to Lebesgue measure, etc., and  associated
              functions such as capacities and pressure
and finally associated dimensions.
              These notions are studied from two interlaced viewpoints. One is that of
              various dynamical systems and the other is that of geometric measure theory as
              applied to recursively generated objects. These approaches naturally meld with
              one another and lead to some interesting mixtures of ideas. We have developed
              an extensive theory of conformal iterated function systems, the iteration of
              infinitely many conformal maps, which may be hyperbolic (uniformly contracting)
              or parabolic (at least one map has an indifferent fixed point) and also have
              made some applications of it to some well known problems, e.g., continued
              fractions and Apollonian packings. There are yet some fundamental outstanding
              problems and several others which arise within the context of applications. We
              want to extend and develop this theory to cover a more structured iteration of
              maps-whose governed by directed graphs or substitutions and random iterations
              and an appropriate multifractal formalisn for these systems. This has many
              applications not only to the study of rational, entire and meromorphic
              functions, but also to newly emerging theory of quantization dimension problems
              arising from statistics and engineering. We also intend to apply our theory to
              limit sets generated by various cellular automata. This could be very important
              for compressing visual images.


