              Professor Krzystof Matyjaszewski of the Department of Chemistry at Carnegie
              Mellon University is supported by the Organic and Macromolecular Chemistry
              Program for research on atom transfer radical polymerization, which is based on
              the use of radical polymerization to convert monomer to polymer. The purpose of
              the proposed research is to determine the structure of the catalytic and
              intermediate species in both ATRA and ATRP, and to build structure-reactivity
              correlations for alkyl, halide, metal and ligand components of the reactions.
              These objectives will be met by employing an array of chemical analysis
              techniques as well as examination of the kinetics and products of the model
              compound reactions. More specifically, the structures of the catalyst in
              non-polar media will be determined for various metal/ligand complexes using
              EXAFS, EPR, UV-Visible and other spectroscopic methods. This is required
              because very little information regarding the structures of such complexes in
              non-polar media (such as vinyl monomers) exists. Another area of focus is the
              determination of activation and deactivation rate constants of alkyl
              halide/metal catalyst pairs. The ability of ATRA and ATRP to produce
              well-controlled products depends heavily on these kinetic parameters, and
              therefore their determination is of vital importance in the development of new
              and more efficient catalysts. The systematic investigation of the structures
              and reactivities of the species involved in ATRA and ATRP will lead to a
              greater depth of understanding of these reactions. This will, in turn, advance
              and optimize both synthetic methods, such as the development of more effective
              catalysts, so that new materials (including small organic compounds and
              polymers) can be produced more efficiently and with greater yields and
              selectivity.

Professor Krzystof Matyjaszewski of the Department of Chemistry
              at Carnegie Mellon University using atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP)
              has been able to polymerize a wide range of monomers including various
              styrenes, acrylates and methacrylates as well as other monomers such as
              acrylonitrile, vinyl pyridine, and dienes. Although many of the polymer types
              described have been prepared using other living polymerizations, ATRP remains
              the most powerful, versatile, simple, and inexpensive. Researchers have been
              striving to develop a living radical polymerization for nearly 40 years. An
              alternative was sought because other types of living polymerizations are
              severely limited by many factors: only a small number of monomers can be used,
              the reactions are sensitive to moisture, and two or more monomers cannot be
              randomly copolymerized. Radical polymerization, in contrast, can polymerize
              hundreds of monomers, can copolymerize two or more monomers, and can be
              performed in water as emulsions or suspensions. The Matyjaszewski research
              group was the first to develop a "controlled/living radical polymerization"
              (CRP) that used a simple, inexpensive polymerization system. It is capable of
              polymerizing a wide variety of monomers, is tolerant of trace impurities
              (water, oxygen, and inhibitor), and is readily applicable to industrial
              processes. The system that was developed was termed Atom Transfer Radical
              Polymerization (ATRP). ATRP is a robust system that has generated much interest
              among polymer chemists in both industry and academia. Science Watch, a trade
              journal, has recently listed three ATRP papers among the top ten cited papers
              in chemistry today. Several commercial companies are pursuing CRP as evidenced
              by 195 patent applications with 72 related to ATRP alone. The first commercial
              product related to this method will be available this year. The first
              applications are related to coatings but applications related to dispersants,
              adhesives, additives, lubricants, and cosmetics will quickly follow.

