              Over the past decade, aid for post-secondary schooling has become increasingly
              tied to merit.  During this period, a number of state governments have
              committed millions of dollars to merit aid, in most cases dropping means tests
              entirely.  The model for these state actions has been Georgia's HOPE ("Helping
              Outstanding Pupils Educationally") Scholarship.  Introduced in 1993, the HOPE
              Scholarship covers tuition, fees, and book expenses for students attending
              Georgia public colleges, and provides a subsidy of comparable value to students
              attending in-state private colleges, without any income restrictions. Since its
              inception, more than $1.2 billion of HOPE scholarship aid has been distributed
              to over 525,000 students. The relative price changes induced by HOPE-style aid
              influence several important enrollment decisions: in-state versus out-of-state,
              2-year versus 4-year, labor-market versus 2-year (or 4-year). Student movements
              along these margins raise important questions about the effects of merit aid on
              student sorting.  This study will examine the degree to which programs like
              HOPE lead to college stratification by ability race and gender. 

Individual
              sorting is a pervasive fact of life. Resources early in life determine in large
              part the level and quality of a person's postsecondary education. From the
              perspective of sorting, parental resources determine where you live and where
              begin your schooling, which enhance a child's college prospects. A college
              degree, in turn, improves labor and marriage market opportunities. Thus, to the
              extent merit is correlated with household income, programs like the HOPE
              Scholarship reinforce the effects of sorting patterns established prior to the
              college enrollment decision. 

