              The investigator develops a comprehensive computational tool for modeling of the
              kinetics of microstructural evolution under thermo-mechanical loading in
              compound structures.  He approximates the microstructural kinetics using first
              order implicit partial differential equations with a certain specific type of
              Dirichlet boundary conditions, and using a novel subgrid projection method. He
              applies this computational technique to provide an active control of vibrations
              and noise reduction based on the martensitic phase transformation.  Implicit
              partial differential equations represent a large class of ordinary and partial
              differential equations and systems that are nonlinear in the highest
              derivatives, such as the Eikonal or Hamilton-Jacobi equations.  They are
              closely related to partial differential inclusions that play a crucial role in
              the study of phase transitions.  Typically, the solutions of imlicit partial
              differential equations are not smooth, they are not unique, and often they
              incorporate enormous amount of competing scales.  These three distinctive
              features present a definitive challenge to the design of suitable numerical
              methods applicable to finding solutions of implicit partial differential
              equations.  Recent work based on the Baire category argument shows that there
              exist solutions of such equations that cannot be obtained by standard
              analytical approaches.  The existence theory itself is not constructive, does
              not yield any hint as to how to construct selection principles, and it does not
              provide a notion of a generalized solution.

In regular use, machinery is
              subjected to periodic stresses.  This results in acoustic waves travelling
              through the material. Since these waves are small in comparison to the
              potential energy of the overall machine, conversion to heat is an effective
              method of noise reduction.  Thus highly damping materials may be used either in
              part or in full to accomplish this task.  Shape memory alloys exhibit such
              significant damping properties.  These are special alloys that change their
              microstructure from that of a stiff, rotationally symmetric phase to a ductile,
              less symmetric phase when cooled or put under stress.  These desirable damping
              properties are a result of movement within the twin boundaries in the
              martensite phase, as well as the motion of the incoherent austenite-martensite
              interface, and are significantly temperature dependent.  The investigator
              undertakes computational modeling to understand and actively control the phase
              transitions in shape memory alloys, based on implicit partial differential
              equations.  The applications include such possibilities as controlled vibration
              of a cutting edge in non-invasive surgery, ultrasonic wave detectors,
              stabilization of platforms on various spacecraft as well as acoustic
              suppression in cockpits. 

