              Dr. Timothy R. Hoover of the University of Georgia, Dr. Yves V. Brun of Indiana
              University, and Dr. Naomi Ward of The Institute for Genomic Research have been
              awarded a grant to sequence the genome of the budding bacterium Hyphomonas
              neptunium.  The goal of the project is to identify and assign potential
              functions to the genes in H. neptunium.  The H. neptunium genome consists of
              approximately 2.7 million nucleotide base pairs forming about 2,000 genes. 
              Random genomic DNA fragments will be sequenced, and the collected data will be
              assembled into the complete genomic sequence.  Gene identification will be done
              using an algorithm and potential roles for the gene products will be assigned
              by comparing the sequences of these products with those in a database of
              bacterial protein sequences.  Genes that match entries in the database will
              have the corresponding role and gene common name associated with the match
              assigned to the predicted coding region.

Many bacteria reproduce through a
              process known as budding.  Little is known about budding or associated
              activities such as chromosome partitioning.  Understanding these processes is
              critical for developing new strategies for controlling the growth of unwanted
              bacteria or exploiting those with desirable activities.  This research will
              enhance studies on budding by identifying all of the genes within a
              representative budding bacterium.  Researchers can use these data to identify
              proteins that have roles in budding or associated processes.  Interestingly,
              the budding potential of a newly differentiated stalk cell is limited to about
              seven budding events; thus H. neptunium can be used as a model for microbial
              senescence. Such experiments can be adapted to be appropriate for
              undergraduates, graduate students, or post-doctoral researchers.  Thus, this
              research will provide significant educational opportunities for a wide variety
              of students.  This is a Microbial Genome Sequencing Award funded through a
              collaborative program between the National Science Foundation and the
              Department of Agriculture.


