              With National Science Foundation support Dr. Brian Byrd and his colleagues will
              conduct two seasons of archaeological and paleonenvironmental research in the
              San Elijo Reserve County Park situated 20 miles north of San Diego in one of
              the regions largest and best preserved coastal wetlands. The rich natural
              resources include tidal channels and mud flats, six plant communities and a
              wide range of vertebrates, invertebrates and bird species. A pilot program of
              sediment coring which permits reconstruction of past environments indicates
              estuary deposits dating back to almost 8000 years ago. Archeological research
              has revealed a rich archaeological heritage in this region and although many
              sites which lie outside the san Elijo Reserve have been destroyed by urban
              development, sixteen prehistoric shell midden sites recorded within the park
              document occupation in almost every millennium from almost 8,000 to 900 years
              ago. The goal of Dr. Byrd's research is to build up a comprehensive picture of
              environmental change within this wetland over an eight millennium period, and
              plot against this changing human settlement patterns and subsistence strategies
              over time. During the first year of the project independent environmental data
              will be collected and test excavations will be conducted at 12 shell midden
              sites to refine occupation time ranges and determine which sites can provide
              the richest sources of subsistence data. In a second phase, large-scale
              excavation will be conducted at appropriate sites. Special emphasis will be
              placed on the collection of large representative samples of animal, plant and
              shell remains to reconstruct foraging patterns. Preliminary data indicates that
              over time resource rich estuaries gradually became silted up and impoverished
              as sea level rose. Formerly aggregated human populations remained in the region
              but spread more thinly over the landscape to make use of foods more  costly in
              effort and  more difficult to procure. Against this background the research
              team will flesh out the tentative archaeological record and use the data
              collected to test a variety of theories derived from optimum foraging theory.
              From this theoretical base a number of predictions can be made and these center
              on the most energy efficient approaches to resource utilization. They suggest
              how, in the face of decreasing resources, people can most effectively move
              between and utilize food patches and how the breadth of their diet may
              change.

In recent years archaeologists have come to realize that resource
              rich coastal regions provided an important niche for hunting and gathering
              peoples and that in such areas in many parts of the world, relatively sedentary
              societies emerged. This research will shed new light on how such coastal
              dwellers responded to often rapid and extreme environmental change and the
              basic strategies they employed. The project will be conducted in the context of
              a summer field school which includes 14 to 16 students and thus will also serve
              a valuable educational function.

