              0092487
Stock

It has been hypothesized that a key feature contributing to
              the capacity of organisms to evolve is the organization of their overall
              morphology into independently varying units, or modules, that develop under the
              control of independent genetic pathways. The proposed research uses the
              vertebrate dentition to examine whether such modular organization applies to
              meristic systems, i.e. those composed of multiple similarly-constructed parts.
              The specific hypothesis to be tested is that regions of the dentition of fishes
              known to evolve independently develop under the control of different sets of
              genes. Developmental genetic analyses of the dentition will be carried out in
              two species, the zebrafish (Danio rerio), and the Mexican tetra (Astyanax
              mexicanus). The former species, a popular model system for developmental
              genetic studies, possesses teeth only in the pharyngeal region, while the
              latter possesses both pharyngeal teeth and teeth lining the margins of the oral
              cavity. The objectives of the project are to determine the extent of modularity
              in the genetic control of tooth development in oral and pharyngeal regions, and
              to characterize the mechanism(s) by which the zebrafish lineage has lost oral
              teeth while retaining pharyngeal teeth. The genes to be examined are members of
              the Fgf (fibroblast growth factor), Hh (hedgehog), and Bmp (bone morphogenetic
              protein) signaling pathways known to be involved in the development of the
              mammalian dentition. Modular genetic control of the the dentition will be
              investigated by comparisons of oral and pharyngeal regions within both species.
              These comparisons will include gene expression patterns, the effects of
              pharmacological inhibition of Fgf and Hh signaling, and (in the zebrafish) the
              consequences for morphology and gene expression of mutations in components of
              each signaling pathway. Potential outcomes include the use of identical genetic
              pathways triggered by separate initiation signals in the two types of teeth
              versus the existence of extensive differences throughout the pathways.Further
              insight on modularity in the dentition can be gained by an understanding of the
              mechanisms of region-specific tooth loss. Evolutionary loss of oral teeth in
              the zebrafish lineage will be investigated by comparison of gene expression
              patterns between the oral regions of both species. Genes exhibiting differences
              in oral expression are likely to have been involved in the independent
              evolution of oral and pharyngeal teeth. The data to be collected in the
              proposed research will suggest mechanisms for the development and evolution of
              members of other meristic systems such as scales and limbs.

