               0073984
O'Day

Chemical transformations of arsenic in the environment
              control its mobility, bioavailability, and toxicity.  These processes include
              inorganic or biological oxidation and reduction, biologically mediated
              methylation, adsorption to and desorption from mineral surfaces, and mineral
              precipitation, co-precipitation, and dissolution.  Arsenic is a well-known
              toxin at elevated concentrations and a known carcinogen in chronic exposure. 
              Because arsenic is commonly found in streams and groundwaters of the arid and
              simi-arid western  U.S., understanding of retention mechanisms by stream
              subsurface sediments is important for evaluating arsenic mobility and migration
              into drinking water sources.

We are using synchrotron X-ray absorption
              spectroscopy and supporting characterization methods to determine the primary
              modes of arsenic speciation in hyporheic zone sediments from two streams, one
              receiving  As(III) from geothermal sources, and one with elevated arsenic and
              metal concentrations from mining and weathering of sulfide tailings.  We will
              identify speciation in sediments at the molecular level, document changes in
              oxidation state and ligand environment as a function of sediment depth, and
              assess the importance of biological mediation.  We will use a combination of
              X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine
              structure (EXAFS) analyses, and appropriate arsenic reference compounds, to
              quantitatively determine arsenic speciation.  Complementary characterization
              methods will include laboratory and  synchrotron powder X-ray diffraction,
              scanning electron microscopy and microprobe, and selective extraction methods. 
              Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) of sulfur isotope ratios will be used to
              identify biologically precipitated sulfur compounds.  This molecular
              information will be evaluated with thermodynamic calculations of surface and
              hyporheic zone water chemistry measured in the field to determine stable and
              metastable species and the chemical affinity of arsenic transformation
              reactions.  Molecular speciation identified in field samples will be linked to
              reaction rates of arsenic oxidation or reduction measured in simplified
              laboratory systems.  We will develop a windowed flow-through cell for
              real-time, in situ X-ray aborption measurements of arsenic redox reaction in
              simplified systems.  The outcome will be a quantitative understanding at the
              molecular scale of biotic and abiotic speciation reactions that control arsenic
              partitioning in stream hyporheic zones.  This level of understanding is
              important for development of general rate expressions for arsenic oxidation and
              reduction reactions that are transferable among different geochemical
              environments.

