              It has become clear that modifications in the interactions among developmental
              regulatory genes are an important source of phenotypic change during the course
              of evolution. Recruitment is an evolutionary process where an existing
              regulatory gene acquires a new developmental role. One of the first cases of
              recruitment to be recognized was the acquisition of a pair-rule patterning role
              for even-skipped during insect evolution. Many other probable cases have since
              been identified from various phyla, suggesting that recruitment is a relatively
              common and important evolutionary process -- yet almost nothing is known about
              the mechanistic basis for recruitment. This proposal focuses on three putative
              cases of recruitment in echinoderms. One involves the expression of distal-less
              in the imaginal rudiment of echinoids, before and during ectodermal
              invagination. The other two are apparently independent cases, in holothuroids
              and echinoids, where orthodenticle expression has become tightly correlated
              with shifts in the cilated bands of larvae. The proposed research examines the
              genetic, developmental, and evolutionary bases for these three cases of
              recruitment. The first goal is to define the phylogenetic context. This
              involves analyzing gene expression in several species, including ones with
              morphologies that differ in ways that are likely to be informative. Comparative
              expression data are used to identify when during the diversification of
              echinoderms the new role appeared. These data are also used to identify species
              that closely bracket the transition for experimental characterizations. The
              second goal is to examine the altered developmental role experimentally. This
              involves analyzing the phenotypic consequences of various manipulations of gene
              expression: misexpression, overexpression, and blocked expression. These
              experiments are done with species that have the new developmental role as well
              as those that lack it.  Phenotypes resulting from these experiments will
              provide functional information about the new role. The third goal is to seek
              the genetic basis for each new role. This involves characterizing the genetic
              basis for the expression domain associated with the new developmental role.
              Transient expression assays are used to investigate this, involving
              promoter/reporter constructs that are swapped between species. These
              experiments will reveal whether the new expression domain is due to changes in
              the sequence of the 5' flanking region (cis) or in the array of transcription
              factors present in the nucleus (trans). These studies are expected to provide
              important insights into the evolution of gene regulatory systems.
