              With National Science Foundation support Drs. Joan Brenner Coltrain and Shawn
              Carlyle will analyze the bone chemistry of a human burial collection from the
              American Southwest.  The  burials under study make up the "Basketmaker
              Collection" and are housed at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology
              at Harvard.  Basketmaker people are thought to represent the earliest farmers
              in the Four Corners region, predating the Anasazi, lived in pit houses rather
              than adobe structures and used basketry rather than pottery.  The Peabody
              Basketmaker collection was assembled early in the twentieth century and is not
              as well documented as later collections recovered using systematic excavation
              and recording methods.  Firmly establishing the timeframe in which they lived,
              their reliance on maize as a dietary staple and their genetic ancestry will add
              measurably to our understanding of this important period in Southwest
              prehistory.  We will use three techniques in this study.  The first is
              radiocarbon dating.  This is accomplished by isolating and purifying a protein
              called collagen from a small piece of bone.   Collagen makes up the supporting
              framework of bone and is comprised of amino acids that contain carbon.  A small
              fraction of this carbon is the radioactive isotope of carbon, 14C, allowing us
              to obtain a radiocarbon date from bone collagen.  The second technique is a
              two-part analysis of Basketmaker diets.  The first is based on two stable
              isotopes of carbon found in bone collagen, 13C and 12C.  The ratio of 13C to
              12C covaries with the amount of maize in the diet of sampled individuals and
              will be measured on the same isolated and purified proteins that are used in
              radiocarbon dating.  The second assay will measure the ratio of two stable
              isotopes of nitrogen in bone collagen, 15N and 14N, to estimate how much animal
              protein our study population consumed.  It is very possible that as Basketmaker
              people became more sedentary and began to rely more heavily on maize, they
              consumed less animal protein, perhaps as a consequence of reduced animal prey
              densities.   Finally, we will extract mitochondrial DNA from small pieces of
              bone to determine the genetic relationship between Basketmaker people and the
              Mimbres who lived to the south,  the Fremont who lived to the north, the
              Anasazi who followed the Basketmaker in time and modern American Indian groups.
               This will be accomplished by identifying specific maternal lineages evident in
              the mitochondrial genome and by sequencing DNA in specific regions of that
              genome.  The data from these procedures will improve our understanding of who
              the Basketmaker people were, when they arrived in the Four Corners region and
              how reliant they were on maize agriculture over time.   In addition and of
              equal importance, these data will allow the Peabody Museum to comply with
              federal legislation (NAGPRA) that requires them, and all American institutions
              curating Native American remains, to return or repatriate these remains to
              descendent tribal groups if requested.  Currently, several tribes have
              requested the Basketmaker collection.  To equitably repatriate this collection
              is contingent upon the genetic relationships and temporal framework under
              study.   
