              In the establishment of infection, many mammalian and plant bacterial pathogens
              produce effector molecules that are delivered to host cells.  Transport of
              these effectors is accomplished through several different mechanisms.  For
              example, bacterial Type III secretion systems channel effectors directly into
              the host cell whereas bacterial Type I systems secrete effectors into the
              extracellular environment. In many plant/pathogen interactions, host resistance
              responses are initiated via intracellular receptors encoded by plant disease
              resistance genes that recognize Type III secreted effector molecules encoded by
              bacterial avirulence (avr) genes.  In contrast, the mechanisms by which plant
              cell surface receptors respond to extracellular effectors are unknown. 
Xa21
              is a rice resistance gene encoding a presumed receptor kinase that confers
              resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) Philippine race 6, the causal
              agent  of bacterial leaf blight, the most destructive bacterial disease of rice
              in Asia and Africa. Dr. Ronald has shown that the presumed extracellular
              leucine rich repeat domain of XA21 is responsible for specific recognition of
              the avirulent strain Xoo Philippine race 6. Dr. Ronald has identified 6 Xoo
              genes from this strain that are required for the avirulence function. Three of
              these genes (xooA, xooB, xooC) encode proteins that share similarity with
              components of Type I secretion systems of gram negative bacteria. 
The
              long-term goal of this proposal is to elucidate the relationship and function
              of these six Xoo avirulence determinants, identify and characterize the
              effector molecule and analyze the interaction between the effector and rice
              receptor kinase XA21. 
The Xa21/Xoo interaction is particularly advantageous
              for these studies for several reasons. Xa21 is the only disease resistance gene
              encoding a receptor kinase so far identified and likely recognizes an
              extracellular effector. Xoo is genetically tractable and the genes encoding
              Type I secretion systems are characterized. Finally, rice is a model for
              studies of all cereals and therefore the expected results will have a broad
              impact on understanding and controlling bacterial diseases of cereals.
              Accomplishment of the proposed objectives is expected to lead to the first
              detailed understanding of the roles of Type 1 secretion systems and sulfation
              in determining host specificity of phytopathogenic bacteria. 
 

