              The complete genome of the nematode model organism, C. elegans, has recently
              been published.  This represents the first elucidation of the complete genome
              of a multicellular organism.  The availability of this information is expected
              to open up vast new opportunities for discovery in biology.  This project
              focuses on an essential cellular function, endocytosis, in C. elegans.  This is
              an area of cell biology that in the past has been studied largely in yeast, in
              vertebrate cells in culture, and in a limited number of other model systems. 
              The study of endocytosis (and other cellular functions) in C. elegans will
              ultimately allow the exploitation of not only the genomic information but also
              the powerful genetic tools available for studies this organism and enable
              important new discoveries about fundamental cellular processes and
              functions.

Endocytosis is the process by which cells internalize specific
              materials (proteins, usually) from their environment.  In receptor-mediated
              endocytosis, an extracellular ligand first binds to its receptor on the cell
              surface; then, that portion of the cell membrane invaginates and ultimately
              pinches off to form an intracellular membrane-enclosed compartment containing
              the bound ligand.  

A new DNAJ domain-containing gene, rme-8, was discovered
              by using a novel genetic screen for C. elegans mutants defective in
              receptor-mediated endocytosis (the rme mutants ).  Rme-8 is an essential gene
              required for both receptor-mediated and fluid-phase endocytosis. Highly
              conserved homologues of RME-8 are found in plants, flies and humans, but none
              is present in the S. cerevisiae genome. The goal of this proposal is to study
              the cellular and molecular functions of rme-8 in C. elegans.

In an attempt
              to identify the step where RME-8 functions in endocytosis, RME-8 will be
              localized to an endocytic compartment by cytological co-localization with known
              endocytic compartment-specific markers. These subcellular localization and
              co-localization experiments will provide the first indication of RME-8's role
              in a particular step of endocytosis. The role of RME-8 in endocytosis will be
              also tested by examining mis-localization of known endocytic markers in rme-8
              mutant strains.  

In order to analyze the molecular function of RME-8,
              RME-8's domain structures will be studied by creating deletions of RME-8 and
              assaying their in vivo functions and localization. As RME-8 contains at least
              one known protein-protein interaction domain, namely a DnaJ domain, proteins
              that interact with RME-8 will be identified using the yeast two-hybrid system.
              These experiments will establish the important functional domains in RME-8 and
              identify the proteins that interact with these domains.  

Rme-8 is an
              essential gene whose function is required in multiple cells in C. elegans. In
              particular, rme-8 mutants are defective in molting and in fluid-phase
              endocytosis. The role of RME-8 in molting as well in fluid-phase endocytosis
              will be studied by examining RME-8's subcellular localization in those cells
              associated with these mutant phenotypes, namely hypodermal cells and
              coelomocytes.  

These experiments will define the step of endocytosis in
              which RME-8 functions, establish RME-8's role in that specific step, and define
              RME-8's possible involvement in a protein complex. RME-8 represents a
              previously unidentified component in endocytosis. Therefore, the discovery of
              RME-8's role in endocytosis might identify one of the many heretofore missing
              links in the endocytosis pathway. Understanding RME-8 in C. elegans will
              provide an important basis for understanding the functions of its close
              homologues in other organisms.



