              This award to Arizona Science Center (ASC) funded by the Office of
              Multidisciplinary Activities of the Directorate for Mathematics and Physical
              Sciences provides paid Internships in Public Science Education for
              undergraduate students and school teachers affiliated with the Center for Solid
              State Science at Arizona State University (ASU).  The interns from the
              university will work with science center staff to develop programs for the
              public and for school outreaches on topics in materials science, with an
              emphasis on nanotechnology.  The ASC-ASU collaboration will create internships
              for three students per academic year for three years and internships for two
              local high school teachers per summer for two summers.
%%%
ASC exhibits and
              programs focus on science as experienced and applied by people in Arizona and
              is visited by over 400,000 people annually.  ASU promotes research, outreach,
              and education in a variety of cross-discipline areas in the physical sciences. 
              In the proposed program, student interns will work with research faculty of the
              Center for Solid State Science and with educators at the Science Center.  They
              will create public demonstrations, "table-top" activities, and multimedia domed
              planetarium theater presentations in which important developments and concepts
              in materials science research are presented in an accessible way.  Teacher
              interns who have participated in a summer program in materials science will
              work with researchers and educators at the two institutions during the summer
              to develop education programs in materials science subjects suitable for
              inclusion in ASC's school and after school outreach programs.

The three-year
              project would produce 13 new programs, delivered beyond the life of the project
              to an estimated 160, 000 visitor's to the Center per year and to over 1200
              children per year attending ASC's outreach programs in their schools. 
              Write-ups of the presentations and the results of the project will be
              disseminated through publications and presentations to museum, science
              education, and science professionals.

