              A grant has been awarded to Dr. Jan Robert Factor at Purchase College, State
              University of New York, to acquire a digital transmission electron microscope
              (TEM) and related equipment for digital image processing and microscopical
              image analysis. Specifically, a TEM will be acquired; an image analysis system
              will be upgraded; as well as an ultramicrotome and diamond knife for preparing
              biological samples for TEM. The TEM and related instruments will be used to
              carry out several research projects and research training in an undergraduate
              college environment. This equipment will enable research projects in the areas
              of cellular immune defenses in the lobster (Homarus americanus); digestive
              tissues of the lobster (Homarus americanus); characterization of the cell
              surface of Renibacterium salmoninarum; uptake and growth of Renibacterium
              salmoninarum in trout macrophage; cellular events induced by fatty acids.
The
              following  research projects will be carried out. 1. Cellular Immune Defenses
              in the Lobster, Homarus americanus, Jan Robert Factor. Removal of foreign
              particles from the blood of the lobster by a large population of fixed
              phagocytes will be studied using fluorescence light microscopy and analysis of
              digital images, to determine if adverse environmental conditions and
              anthropogenic toxins cause disease and mass mortalities. TEM will be used to
              elucidate the unusual mechanism of phagocytic uptake by the fixed phagocytes.
              2. Digestive Tissues of the Lobster, Homarus americanus, Jan Robert Factor.
              Understanding of digestive processes in this ecologically and economically
              important species has been reliant upon electron-microscopical observations,
              and further progress in understanding digestive tissues absolutely requires the
              use of transmission electron microscopy. Studies will examine cells and tissues
              of the tegumental glands, complex basement membranes, connective-tissue fibers,
              and tissue organization. 3. Characterization of the Cell Surface of
              Renibacterium salmoninarum: Fimbriae and p57 Surface Proteins, James G. Daly.
              R. salmoninarum is a unique intracellular pathogen that causes bacterial kidney
              disease in salmonid fishes. Its major cell surface antigen (p57) may be
              important to pathogenesis. p57 and surface fimbriae may be the same, however,
              p57 antibody fails to attach to the fimbriae. Transmission electron microscopy
              will be used to examine the cell surface to determine whether p57 is indeed a
              fimbria or whether they are distinctive proteins. 4. Uptake and Growth of
              Renibacterium salmoninarum in Trout Macrophage, James G. Daly.  This project
              will use both in vitro and in vivo infected macrophages to follow the infection
              and survival of R. salmoninarum within trout macrophage. 5. Ultrastructural
              Localization of Cellular Events Induced by Fatty Acids, Joanne Kivela
              Tillotson. Biochemical pathways of growth factor and eicosanoid signaling will
              be localized by TEM in order to define the influence of specific dietary fatty
              acid administration upon cell proliferation, and the effects of the fatty acids
              on programmed cell death. Combined with cell culture and biochemical studies,
              this will further our understanding of the role of exogenous factors in cell
              proliferation.
	This equipment will significantly enhance the research
              capabilities at Purchase College and enable faculty research that is not now
              possible, with an important impact on the research of more than half of the
              Biology faculty. The research includes several areas of practical scientific
              significance: disease defenses and processes in two commercially important
              groups of animals (the American lobster and salmonid fishes), and the influence
              of dietary fatty acids on cell proliferation and programmed cell death.
              Undergraduate students will be trained in the required techniques in two
              courses, providing the tools needed to participate in the faculty research
              projects. The requested equipment will also be used to encourage students to
              pursue science careers through a variety of local school programs.


