              The consortium between Michigan State University and Florida State
University
              proposes the construction of a highly efficient,
large-area neutron detector
              for the detection of high-energy
neutrons to be used in experiments with fast
              rare isotopes at the
National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory (NSCL).
              This
consortium is joined by Ball State University, Central
              Michigan
University, Concordia College in Moorhead, Minn., Hope
              College,
Indiana University at South Bend, Millikin University,
              Western
Michigan University, and Westmont College, each of which
              will
assemble and test one complete layer of the detector.

The proposed
              detector consists of 144 horizontal blocks of plastic
scintillator arranged in
              9 layers of 16 detectors each, covering an
area of 2.0 m wide by 1.6 m high. 
              The detector is position
sensitive and features multi-hit capability.  The
              addition of
passive iron converters enhances the detection efficiency
              for
neutrons with energies above 100 MeV for an average efficiency of up
to
              70%.  The high detection efficiency will allow the investigation
of very
              neutron-rich nuclei that can only be produced with small
intensities.

The
              detector will be used in connection with the new sweeper magnet
with its focal
              plane detectors in stand-alone mode as well as with
the combination of sweeper
              magnet and the S800 magnetic
spectrograph.  It will therefore be essential for
              the experimental
program at the coupled cyclotron facility. The detector can
              be
optimized for even higher beam energies with only minor
modifications due
              to its modular design.  It could be the first
detector to be used for fast
              fragmentation beams at the Rare Isotope.
