              The project deals with the study of ex-post efficient multi-object auctions when
              there are a finite number of possibly heterogeneous goods and agents' values
              are interdependent. The recent spurt of interest in the study of ex-post
              efficient, multiple-object auctions is largely the result of large-scale
              privatization of socially held assets by governments. In light of the influence
              economic theory has had on the recent design of a number of these privatization
              auctions, it is of some importance to understand which of the results from the
              one-dimensional symmetric auction literature, on which economists base most of
              their intuition, are sensitive to dimensionality, heterogeneity, and
              interdependency. This is especially germane since the multi-object,
              multi-dimensional case is by far the more common.

Recent work by the PI in
              collaboration with another researcher extended Vickrey's ex-post efficient
              multiunit auction to environments with interdependent values.  (As a by-product
              of this analysis they also established the ex-post efficiency of the recently
              designed FCC auction.)  However, while the modified version of Vickrey's
              auction is simple to play in principle, it requires the bidders to submit many
              bids to the auctioneer. This is rather onerous from a practical point of view. 
              An ascending version of the above auction that allowed simpler equilibrium
              bidding behavior would be a significant practical advantage. The first project
              described in the proposal outlines plans to explore this possibility.

The
              second part of the proposal outlines plans to further generalize the auction
              environment.  As in Vickrey, the researcher's modified auction has so far been
              one in which goods are homogeneous and bidders' demands are downward sloping. 
              However, these assumptions are often too restrictive to describe some of the
              more common environments.  The proposal describes plans to extend the modified
              Vickrey auction to the case of heterogeneous goods and interdependent
              valuations.

