              Musa Genomics Workshop, Arlington VA. July 17-19 2001

A Musa Genomic
              Consortium has been formed within the framework of the Global Program for Musa
              Improvement. Deciphering the banana genome is an enormous task that will
              require participation and collaboration of scientists around the world. The
              Consortium will bring together and enhance the combined expertise of the
              different participating laboratories. This meeting has been organised to
              develop the strategy for the Consortium and to plan its implementation. 

The
              Musa genome offers exciting new perspectives in studying genomic biodiversity
              of monocots. It has a small genome (500 to 600 Mb - only 25% larger than rice)
              that is highly tractable to complete functional and sequence analysis.
              Cultivated varieties of Musa are sterile clones that have been propagated
              vegetatively for thousands of years, while fertile wild diploid equivalents
              have been actively evolving for the same period in the same environment,
              ranking Musa as a unique model to study plant evolution. Sterile and fertile
              forms have also co-evolved with most of the Musa pathogens, creating an
              excellent system in which to study plant/pathogen evolution. Musa was the first
              species where a pararetrovirus was shown to be integrated into a plant genome,
              with the capacity to give rise to episomal banana streak badnavirus.
              Understanding the mechanism behind this phenomenon may lead to important
              applications, such as gene targeting. Musa is among few plant species with
              bi-parental cytoplasmic inheritance: paternal inheritance of mitochondria and
              maternal inheritance of chloroplasts. Variability in ploidy levels in Musa
              offers a new opportunity to gain insight to the greater-than-additive gains in
              crop productivity that often accompany polyploidy. Polyploids such as cotton
              and sugarcane contain only one type of polyploidy within the taxon, whereas
              Musa includes several types of autopolyploids (AAA, AAAA, AAAAAA), and
              allopolyploids (AAB, ABB, AABB, AAAB) in addition to diploid M. acuminata (AA)
              and M. balbisiana (BB) and AB hybrids.


