              0227919
Bordeaux	

This award is to Sinte Gleska University to support the
              activity described below for 24 months.  The proposal was submitted in response
              to the Partnerships for Innovation Program Solicitation (NSF 02060).
The
              partners include Sinte Gleska University (Lead Institution), The Rosebud Sioux
              Tribe, Global Sciences and Technology Corporation, and Earth Satellite
              Corporation. The goals of the program include developing and implementing a
              curriculum in geospatial information technology that is focused on the natural
              and cultural resource information needs of tribal governments.  The program
              creates an academic program that is focused on the cultural and land management
              information needs of Native American communities.  This academic program
              provides training in geospatial technology, and increases the level and quality
              of science and math education in Native schools. A series of workshops for
              tribal elders will help ensure that the development of the proposed curriculum
              will be relevant to and will address real operational needs of the Tribes.  In
              addition, the program is developing a business plan for a geospatial services
              enterprise that will serve indigenous communities, federal and state agencies,
              and will ultimately be able to compete successfully for geospatial services
              work for public and private sector clients worldwide. 

The aim of the
              program is to create a self-sustaining Native American business that provides
              the skills to manage land resources with the initial focus on Native American
              communities and government agencies. Remote sensing and geospatial services
              that provide real time agriculture weather and storm information will be made
              available to Indian Nations throughout North America. The model will be made
              available for other indigenous communities. Unemployment and underemployment
              are widespread, and self-sustaining enterprises are rare among the Native
              Americans in this region.  The geospatial industry exports work in foreign
              countries, and this program is designed to provide trained workforce to keep
              these jobs in the U.S. The creation of new jobs, training for future employees
              plus providing a service to Native American communities to give them tools to
              help them manage their land will have a significant impact on the region.  

