              Studies of nanoscale phenomena relevant to environmental preservation and
              verification of new express and nonintrusive methods to control pollution on
              the nanoscale are of tremendous importance to improve quality of life and help
              in the creation of more efficient and clean manufacturing processes. Water
              purification and quality control techniques can be significantly refined if
              interactions at the interfaces of colloidal particles can be investigated at
              the molecular scale. The objective of this research is to exploit and extend
              the capabilities of the non-linear optical method of second harmonic generation
              (SHG) to study model nanoscale interactions at the interface of micron-size
              colloidal particles. More specifically, the adsorption of cationic and anionic
              surfactants at micron-size charged silica and alumina particles in water will
              be investigated by SHG. 

SHG is a second-order nonlinear optical process and
              has been proven to be highly surface-specific probe of interfacial structure
              and surfactant adsorption at surfaces in particular. Its application to study
              nanoscale structures at the surfaces of micron-size particles has not been
              developed to its full potential due to some methodological problems and lack of
              extensive knowledge about the nature of the particle-surfactant interactions.
              It is expected that this research will bring new understanding of the
              adsorption processes at the particle surfaces, which will help to further
              promote the application of the SHG method to study surfactant nanoscale
              structures on colloidal particles.

A SHG spectrometer will be built based on
              an available femtosecond laser and will be employed for these studies. It will
              be built in collaboration with Prof. John Conboy, Department of Chemistry, who
              has rich experience in vibrational sum frequency generation spectroscopy and is
              also a senior member of the research team. He and Dr. Zhorro Nickolov, who is a
              Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Metallurgical Engineering, will be
              closely collaborating with the PI on all research issues. 

SHG of water
              molecules oriented by the charged particle interfaces will be monitored as a
              function of surfactant concentration in the solution. The adsorption of the
              surfactant is expected to reduce the polarization of the interfacial water
              molecules by screening the surface charge of the microparticles. This would
              lead to a corresponding decrease in the SHG signal which can than be measured
              and quantified. Alternatively, dyes resonantly absorbing at the fundamental
              infrared wavelength and therefore having a strong SHG signal, will be adsorbed
              at the particle surfaces and used to establish a constant high level of SHG
              signal. Then the surfactant will be added and as a result of displacing the dye
              from the particle surfaces the SHG signal will decrease. Consequently
              surfactant adsorption free energy and surface coverage can be evaluated in both
              cases. The risk elements in the proposal are connected with the necessity to
              discriminate between the SHG signals characterizing the particle interface and
              SHG signals which may be generated by the bulk of the particles, and by bulk
              water. Also, the competition between the surfactant and the dye for adsorption
              at the particle surfaces should be accounted for. The project will have a
              significant impact on advancing of the research in nanoscale phenomena in
              colloidal systems and on creating capabilities to perform high-level in-situ
              nonintrusive studies on particle interfaces. 

