              Through evolution, biology has produced a remarkably diverse and efficient
              collection of proteins. These proteins assemble into a seemingly infinite
              variety of nanobiostructures, and they promote an extensive repertoire of
              chemical processes; hence, they comprise an interesting collection of
              biomolecular nanomachines. The proteins that are responsible for the
              maintenance and manipulation of DNA are one important subset of this
              collection. Their capacity to assemble with, and to alter the structure of, DNA
              is essential for all biological function.  These proteins function in the
              packaging of DNA, the high-fidelity copying of genetic information, the reading
              of the genetic code and its conversion into RNA, the generation of genetic
              diversity, and the preservation of genetic and structural integrity of the
              genome.  This project describes a new experimental approach to study the
              assembly and function of several of the nanomachines that function in these
              biological processes.  The method involves the direct visualization by
              fluorescence microscopy, in real-time, of the assembly, disassembly, and
              movement of these nanobiostructures on single, optically-trapped DNA molecules
              using a novel, multi-port, laminar-flow, micro flow cell.  This instrument will
              allows one to readily introduce an individual, optically-trapped DNA molecule
              sequentially into a series of reaction conditions, and to visualize the changes
              in structure/assembly of the molecules in real-time using multi-wavelength
              fluorescence microscopy. The successful development of this instrument will
              reveal important information about the structure and function of DNA-protein
              interactions that cannot be obtained using large ensembles of DNA molecules
              (where such information is often lost by averaging, or obscured by competing
              intermolecular interactions). This research will provide revolutionary new
              information about how proteins function to alter the structure of DNA.
              Furthermore, the experimental techniques can be applied to the study of many
              other nanoscale biostructures.
