              In order for insects to grow and undergo metamorphosis, they must shed their
              restrictive outer skin (exoskeleton). They have used this process very
              efficiently over hundreds of millions of years in order to grow at times when
              predators and other endangering environmental factors are less threatening.
              Many of the structural, physiological, biochemical and molecular events that
              occur during the molting process are elicited by the principle molting hormone
              of insects, a polyhydroxylated steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone, which is
              synthesized in many tissues of the insect from another steroid, ecdysone.
              Ecdysone is synthesized in special glands in the insect, the prothoracic
              glands. The stimulus to synthesize this very important molecule is a peptide,
              prothoracicotropic hormone, secreted by four specialized neurosecretory cells
              in the insect's brain. 

About 40 years ago, ecdysone was extracted and
              characterized from two tons of commercial silkworm, but during the past four
              decades there has been little progress in elucidating the individual
              biochemical steps in ecdysone synthesis. Understanding the synthetic steps is
              important not only to further our basic knowledge of this very important group
              of animals that intimately affects human welfare, but also because if one is
              able to characterize the individual steps in the ecdysone biosynthetic pathway,
              and clone the genes for the enzymes that mediate each of these steps, there is
              the possibility of introducing this sequence of genes (transfection) into
              agriculturally important plants. They would then synthesize this steroid
              hormone, which is a natural deterrent to insect pests. Thus, when the hormone
              is ingested by an insect consuming such transfected plants, it will molt out of
              synchrony and will not be viable. Ecdysone is nontoxic to higher organisms, so
              that this possibility of introducing the necessary genes into host plants is a
              reasonable goal. 

Little progress had been made using classical biochemical
              techniques to elucidate the pathway of ecdysone biosynthesis because the
              intermediate compounds are in very low quantity and are extremely unstable.
              Almost all laboratories that have attempted this feat have given up after years
              of negative results. In collaboration with the O'Connor laboratory at the
              University of Minnesota, the principal investigator has made critical progress
              in elucidating the biosynthetic pathway between cholesterol and ecdysone. For
              these studies, the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster has been employed because
              its genetics are better known than any other animal, and its short life cycle
              makes both the molecular genetics and biochemistry more feasible. This combined
              use of molecular genetics and biochemical analysis has resulted in the
              identification, cloning, and functional genomic studies of two enzymes in the
              ecdysone biosynthetic pathway, and has provided insights into experimental
              approaches for elucidating the remaining enzymes in that pathway. By cloning
              and sequencing certain genes (Halloween genes) from Drosophila embryos that
              have less than the normal amount of ecdysone, the principal investigator and
              his colleagues learned that mutations in these genes cause lethality in the
              embryo. Transfection of these genes into a Drosophila cell line and use of
              biochemical technology has shown that two of these mutants, disembodied and
              shadow, code for mitochondrial ecdysterol 22- and 2-hydroxylases, respectively.
              The purpose of continued work over the next several years will be to fully
              identify these two enzymes through more sophisticated analyses (mass
              spectrometry) and identify as many of the remaining (5) enzymes (P450 enzymes)
              in this biosynthetic pathway. Expression of these genes will be examined during
              Drosophila development, and a search will be conducted for counterparts in
              other insect model systems, such as the tobacco hornworm. Not only will these
              experiments result in a complete knowledge of how ecdysone is biosynthesized,
              but they will also provide the genes for transfection into plants of
              agricultural importance. In addition, the data should provide a clear
              understanding of the rate-limiting control mechanisms that modulate ecdysone
              biosynthesis, and perhaps will permit identification of the specific
              biosynthetic reactions that are controlled by the brain neuropeptide,
              prothoracicotropic hormone. This new paradigm of combining molecular genetics
              with biochemical analysis can be used in the future for studying biosynthetic
              pathways in a variety of organisms, including pathogens. 

