              Schroeder

Hyperthermophlic archaea inhabit volcanic environments such as
              hydrothermal vents or hot springs that may resemble conditions when life on
              earth originated.  The hyperthermophilic, marine Archaeon Pyrobaculum
              aerophilum belongs to a deep branch of the phylogenetic tree suggesting that
              this organism is relatively ancient.  The objective of this research project is
              to study the mechanism of denitrification in the Archaeon P. aerophilum.
              Denitrification is a unique prokaryotic pathway that allows the microbe to
              convert nitrate into dinitrogen gas. It is the only pathway in nature that
              generates nitrogen gas from fixed N oxides and thus it is essential for the
              maintenance of the global nitrogen cycle on earth.  Respiration of nitrate is
              coupled to the generation of energy that fuels cell propagation.  The pathway
              is found in both the domain Bacteria and the domain Archaea suggesting that
              denitrification evolved most likely before the last common ancestor.  P.
              aerophilum represents the oldest denitrifier isolated thus far and provides the
              opportunity to compare an ancient process with that found in today's modern
              microbes.  The denitrification pathway is well described in Gram-negative
              bacteria, where two membrane-bound and two soluble enzyme complexes as well as
              several soluble electron mediating proteins are required.  Based on previous
              results in the PI's laboratory a different mechanism for denitrification is
              proposed for P. aerophilum: Four membrane-bound enzyme complexes exist that all
              interact with a menaquinone pool to reduce nitrate to N2 gas.  A combination of
              biochemical, biophysical and molecular techniques will be employed to test this
              hypothesis and further our understanding of the physiology of hyperthermophlic
              Archaea. The objectives of this project are to further characterize the nitrate
              reductase enzyme, which is interesting because of its novel membrane anchor. 
              To obtain a more complete picture of the denitrification pathway, two
              additional denitrification pathway enzymes, the nitrite reductase and the NO
              reductase, will be purified and characterized.  To facilitate future structural
              analysis of the nitrite and NO reductases the nir and nor genes will be cloned
              and overexpressed.  Since the DNA sequence of P. aerophilum will be available
              in the near future a selected set of genes involved in the denitrification
              pathway will be analyzed for their differential expression in response to
              selected and defined environmental growth conditions. 

The results from this
              research will further our knowledge about respiratory processes that are
              essential functions of life. The study of an ancient Archaeon may give insight
              into how electron transfer reactions have evolved. The investigation of the
              denitrification process in diverse organisms will further our ability to
              understand, predict and deal with global environmental changes that include the
              nitrogen cycle.


