              Farley and Asimow
EAR-0125784

Despite the ubiquitous use of noble gases as
              tracers of Earth processes and as chronometers, many fundamental aspects of
              their geochemical behavior are, surprisingly, poorly understood. Among the
              uncertain characteristics are the siting of noble gases in rocks and minerals,
              mineral/melt partitioning behavior, solubility and diffusivity in important and
              commonly analyzed minerals, and transport mechanism and rate through wet and
              dry rocks. This proposal seeks to address a particularly critical
              characteristic of noble gas geochemistry, about which neither data nor
              theoretical understanding exist: at equilibrium, how do noble gases partition
              between grain boundaries and crystals? Unlike all other elements, the noble
              gases are uncharged and rather large atoms that do not fit in any obvious way
              within most crystal lattices.  Thus it is not unreasonable to propose that
              noble gases will partition into the defect-rich region between grains. This
              possibility is not commonly considered, yet if true, would have profound
              implications for several important fields of geochemistry, most notably
              including studies of mantle evolution and noble-gas-based geochronology.  The
              proposed research project seeks to investigate in a quantitative and
              thermodynamically rigorous way the partitioning behavior of noble gases between
              mineral interiors and grain boundaries in rocks. The conceptually simple
              experimental technique relies on reactor-produced isotopes to eliminate the
              concerns regarding atmospheric adsorption and contamination that plague studies
              based on natural isotopes. In addition to producing otherwise rare isotopes,
              neutron irradiation provides an initial condition closely analogous to in-situ
              radiogenic noble gas production relevant in nature. Although isotopes of all
              noble gases can be produced in many different substrates in this way, this
              pilot study will focus on just one model system: the partitioning of 4He and
              37Ar in polycrystalline aggregates of diopside, equilibrated after irradiation
              at elevated temperature and pressure in the piston-cylinder device. Along with
              partitioning measurements, samples will be characterized texturally and
              chemically with the electron microprobe, SEM, and transmission electron
              microscope to directly assess the physical nature, width, and chemistry of the
              grain boundary region.
The proposed work will develop and explore the
              techniques necessary for establishing the role of grain boundaries in noble gas
              behavior through study of this one simple system. If the irradiation technique
              works for assessing He and Ar partitioning in diopside, it should be generally
              applicable for other noble gases and other materials, and as such has potential
              well beyond the initial pilot study.

