              0072588
Matalon

The objective of the proposed work is to derive and analyze
              mathematical 
models that describe the dynamics of flames. The models will be
              derived 
systematically from the conservation laws of mass, momentum and
              energy 
by means of asymptotic methods and analyzed using analytical and
              
numerical methods. It is proposed to identify mathematical models that
              
contain enough details of the real combustion systems and analyze these
              
models in order to gain basic understanding on how the physical and
              
chemical processes interact in the simpler circumstances. Comparison 
with
              the experimental record will be performed in order to test the models 
and
              their predictions. The mathematical problems involve nonlinear 
evolution
              equations and nonlinear aspects of flame instabilities.

The objective of the
              proposed work is to gain fundamental understanding 
in the complex processes
              occurring in combustion problems, problems that 
are encountered in various
              engineering applications. Improving our 
fundamental understanding of
              combustion phenomena could suggest new 
directions for applied research and
              lead to a better design of combustion 
systems. The problems that will be
              investigated are related to phenomena 
that have been observed in the
              laboratory but are not yet completely 
understood. The proposed work will
              address three classes of problems: 
The first class is concerned with the
              evolution of premixed flames in open 
space and in confined environments,
              where the coupled effects between 
the flame and the hydrodynamic field is of
              primary interest. Studies of 
premixed flames have significant technological
              importance and are 
directly applicable to internal combustion engines
              processes. The second 
class of problems is concerned with instabilities in
              non-premixed 
combustion, or diffusion flames, for which theoretical studies
              are only 
now emerging. Non-premixed conditions are favored in furnaces for
              safety 
reasons and in diesel engines here the liquid fuel evaporates in the
              
combustion chamber providing the necessary fuel vapor that burns with 
air.
              The third class of problems is concerned with flame spread over 
flammable
              liquids, where the combined behaviors in the liquid and gas 
phases determine
              the flame dynamics. Flame spread over an accidental 
spillage of a flammable
              liquid, or a "running liquid fire" encountered in 
petrochemical industries,
              can become a fire hazard.

