              Abstract
CTS-0083229
C. Petty, Michigan State University

The ability to
              predict the low-order statistical properties of turbulent flows is an important
              aspect of modern engineering design.  The exact equations governing the
              instantaneous pressure and velocity fields of constant density, Newtonian
              fluids are known. However, the Reynolds averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS-) equation
              for the mean velocity is statistically unclosed.  This closure problem has been
              an intense area of research for more that fifty years.

Current commercial
              CFD codes offer closure models of varying complexity.  Although the Boussinesq
              approximation for the Reynolds stress limits the utility of the k-e theory,
              engineers attempting to understand the flow behavior within complex spatial
              domains nevertheless apply this theory.  Unfortunately, for many practical
              flows with streamline curvature, the use of a linear gradient type model for
              the Reynolds stress may produce qualitatively results.  Significant efforts has
              been expended to address the short comings of the k-e theory by developing
              closure models for statistical correlation's that appear in the unclosed
              second-order moment equation for the Reynolds stress.  The approach is less
              appealing for design in astute as six additional non-linear partial
              differential equations must be solved in addition to the vector-valued RANS
              equation, the scalar-valued e-equation, and the continuity equation.  LES and
              DNS methods are limited to benchmark flows for model calibration. 
              Unfortunately, computational demands associated with LES and DNS prohibit the
              use of these methods for routine engineering design calculations in complex
              geometries.

With this research a spatial smoothing approximation is used to
              derive an algebraic preclosure representation for the Reynolds stress in terns
              of a prestress correlation.  This novel theoretical approach stems directly
              from the exact dynamical equation governing velocity fluctuations.  The
              prestress, which is a self-correlation of an effective fluctuating force per
              unit mass of fluid, stems from the divergence of fluctuations in the
              instantaneous Reynolds stress and pressure fluctuations.  The working
              hypothesis for the research is that the prestress correlation, which depends
              explicitly on fourth order statistical quantities, is more amenable to a
              universal phenomenological closure that the Reynolds stresses itself.

The
              resulting new algebraic Reynolds stress model will open up new opportunities
              for engineering design.  An isotropic prestress (IPS-) model and algebraic
              prestress (AAPS-) model will be validated for flows with strong streamline
              curvature and integrated into a commercial software code, Fluent.  The new
              closure model will be tested and optimized for a class of statistically
              stationary benchmark flows with streamline curvature.  The IPS- and AAPS-
              models will be used to describe the internal flow structures encountered in
              hydrocyclone separators, industrial scale mixers, and swirl combustors.

