              Thin films synthesized by electron-beam evaporation will be used to explore and
              exploit the remarkable optical switching properties of certain
              recently-discovered metal-hydride thin films, whereby some thin films (e.g.,
              yttrium) can quickly and reversibly transform from a metallic mirror to a
              transparent insulator, by inducing a relatively small change in the hydrogen
              content of the thin film. The objectives of this project include:  1) to gain
              an understanding of the mechanism responsible for the optical switching
              (electron correlation, interstitial site occupancy, and other mechanisms have
              been proposed);  2) to achieve an improvement in switching times;  3) to
              understand the stability and strain effects in the films;   and 4) to provide a
              demonstration of pixel switching in an array of micro-mirrors.  Control of
              hydrogen content using gas pressure, electrochemical charge-transfer, and a
              novel electrotransport technique will be explored.  Switching speed and the
              diffusivity of hydrogen will be explored by investigating specific thin film
              alloys, substrate-film strain effects, and overlayer thickness and composition.
               The first arrays of micro-mirrors with driving electrodes will be patterned by
              photo-lithographic techniques.  Various characterizational and analytical
              techniques, including the new capabilities offered by nuclear magnetic
              resonance force microscopy, as well as conventional Hall effect, x-ray
              diffraction, and atomic force microscopy, will be employed to delineate
              systematics in diffusion coefficients, transport properties, optical
              transmission, and surface and film morphology. Students and post doctoral
              research associates will participate in this research.
%%% 
This work will
              explore and exploit the remarkable properties of certain thin films.  These
              films (typically, these would be metallic coatings on windows and mirrors, or
              would make up the small dots ("pixels") on video displays) can be made to
              quickly switch from being a mirror to being transparent.  This "on-off mirror"
              behavior is controlled by changing the amount of hydrogen that the film is
              allowed to contain.  Such materials have immediate potential for applications,
              from "smart windows" and other energy-saving large-scale products, to
              switchable micro-mirrors for flat-panel displays.  This project represents a
              multifaceted program to optimize and develop such materials.  Objectives
              include:  1) understanding why the optical switching occurs;  2) making the
              switching times faster, in order to make the materials useful for video
              devices;  3) understanding the structure of the films;   and 4) demonstrating
              pixel switching in an array of micro-mirrors.  The work will study the ways
              that the hydrogen content can be changed; in particular, a new technique
              whereby the hydrogen is swept along with an electrical current will be
              examined. The structure of the films and variations in the speed of hydrogen
              motion in the material will be investigated. The first arrays of micro-mirrors
              with driving electrodes will be patterned to demonstrate the utility of these
              switchable optical materials for video displays. This research will be
              conducted with the assistance of graduate and undergraduate students as well as
              postdoctoral research associates.  They will thereby receive training in one of
              the current forefront areas of condensed matter physics and materials science.
              This will facilitate their entry into the scientific/technological workforce
              during the coming decades of this century.
***



