              In environmental and natural resource economics, the management of renewable
              natural resources is of considerable interest to economists because the
              prospect of stewarding a resource forever has practical importance and
              real-world relevance. Moreover, because past failures in managing certain
              renewable natural resources properly have lead to the extinction of several
              species, developing practical strategies for managing remaining renewable
              natural resources is both timely and useful.   This project investigates in
              detail the management of one renewable natural resource, timber, in the
              province of British Columbia, Canada. 
 
For a Timber Supply Area (TSA) in
              British Columbia the investigators have obtained unique access to extremely
              detailed site-level data, which are used by timber-supply managers in the
              British Columbia Ministry of Forests when making harvesting decisions. In
              particular, they have access to elaborate linked biological and geographical
              data in the form of a Geographical Information System (GIS) at the grid level
              which, in this case, is a hectare or 100 meters square. Thus, for every hectare
              in the Fraser TSA, which is located near Vancouver, British Columbia and
              contains several hundreds of thousands hectares, officials at the Ministry of
              Forests provide the investigators with a wide variety of biological,
              engineering, and geographical information relevant to harvesting timber. In
              addition, they also have access to the harvesting strategies proposed and, in
              some cases, the decisions implemented by the Minister of Forests, so they can
              compare our estimated decisions with actual ones. 

In developing practical
              harvesting solutions for timber, they apply the method of stochastic dynamic
              programming.  The goal of the project is to make the following contributions: 
              First, this project takes geography seriously, both in the planar sense and in
              the three-dimensional sense. Second, it takes site-specific heterogeneity
              seriously both on the cost side in terms of felling and transportation and on
              the growth and yield side in terms of heterogeneous stands of timber. Third, it
              models initial conditions. In particular, it does not take as the starting
              point a steady-state allocation, or even an optimal allocation. Instead, it
              takes the existing uneven-aged timber stand as given and derives the optimal
              policy function, the optimal timber-harvesting profile, in terms of this age
              distribution. Fourth, this project uses best-practice biological methods to
              model the dynamics of uneven-aged forest growth and yield. Fifth, in the past
              economists and foresters have typically demonstrated their methods by making
              extremely simple assumptions concerning the stochastic nature of timber prices
              and volumes so that closed-form examples could be solved.  This research
              implements recent developments in computational methods so that practitioners
              can solve numerically for the optimal policy function in realistic biological,
              economic, and spatial environments. 

