              SES- 0111456
Samuel Cohn
Texas A&M University

	This project is an analysis
              of the social and political determinants of economic development in Brazil.
              Current sociological writing on economic development is mis-specified because
              it fails to account for differences between the determinants of growth for
              small and large firms. Small firms represent the vast majority of employment in
              third world nations but receive very little scholarly attention. It is
              hypothesized that the relationship between state intervention and the growth of
              microenterprise does not follow traditional models because a) small firms have
              little influence on national governments and b) governments set policies based
              on the priority of large firms - producing effects on small firms that are
              unplanned but consequential.

	The project considers state-year level
              variation in employment in three Brazilian industries: restaurants,
              barber/beauty shops and hotels. All three industries involve personal service;
              however, restaurants and barber/shops have very low average firm size, while
              hotels are large and subject to chain and multinational ownership. Data from
              the Brazilian census has already been collected and analyzed to develop an
              econometric model of employment in these sectors. This model allows for the
              statistical control of economic factors such as market size, and the estimation
              of the role of key costs such as rent, taxes and wages.

	The residuals from
              the econometric model have been used to identify a set of states with unusually
              high or low levels of service sector activity net of market factors. National
              Science Foundation funds will be used to support a year of fieldwork to allow
              for qualitative investigation of the cases selected in this manner. The
              principal investigator will perform a sustained contrast of three northeastern
              states. One, Sergipe, has an extraordinarily high level of employment n
              barber/beauty shops, and has maintained this level since 1940. One, Bahia, saw
              a resurgence of service sector activity in the 1970's. The third, Alagoas, is
              average in all respects.

	The study will also do smaller analyses of
              residual employment in other states. These include a) contrasting high and low
              levels of service employment in two artificially-created "planned" capitols,
              Campo Grande and Brasilia, b) the slow decline of services in both of Brazil's
              major metropoli (Sdo Paulo and Rio de Janeiro), and c) the marked decline in
              residual service employment in otherwise prosperous Rio Grande do Sul.
              Interviews of businessmen and policy makers will be combined with relevant
              documentary and archival sources. The methodology of the qualitative fieldwork
              will resemble that standard sociological works on Brazilian economic
              development such as those of Peter Evans. However, this study can link those
              findings to econometric results from a time-series cross-section analysis
              providing more rigorous tests of the impacts of the phenomena observed in the
              field.

	The quantitative and qualitative analysis tests theories drawn from
              neoclassical economics, the orthodox state-led development literature,
              political economy, the new network-based economic sociology, the informal
              economy literature and the ethnic enclave literature. A goal of the project
              however is to go beyond these theories and produce a new decision-theory-like
              account that emphasizes the unanticipated developmental consequences of
              policies designed for other purposes.



