              With the support of the Organic and Macromolecular Chemistry Program, Professor
              W. Dean Harman, of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Virginia,
              is studying organic transformations using eta-2 arene complexes of rhenium.
              Through the selective and reversible binding of arenes or polyaromatic
              hydrocarbons through dihapto coordination to a transition metal, their
              reactivity toward electrophiles is enhanced. Reactive intermediates (e.g.,
              arenium and allyl cations) are stabilized, facilitating the assembly of
              polycyclic structures. In addition, metal coordination directs the
              stereochemistry of various chemical transformations and protects the
              coordination site for additional transformations. While dihapto coordination of
              arenes has previously been limited to pentaammineosmium(II) complexes,
              Professor Harman is developing a new class of rhenium(I)-based dearomatization
              agents.

Aromatic compounds (e.g., benzene, toluene) represent one of the
              most readily available classes of compounds for elaboration into more complex
              molecular structures. However, their unique properties place some limitations
              on the chemical reactions available for their elaboration. Professor W. Dean
              Harman, of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Virginia, with the
              support of the Organic and Macromolecular Chemistry Program, is developing
              unique metal-based reagents which allow for the dramatic alteration of the
              reactivity of aromatic compounds. Through his studies, new methods are being
              developed allowing the facile and selective conversion of these readily
              available starting materials to compounds of potential significance in their
              own right or as intermediates in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and other
              fine chemical products.
