              EAR-0001081
Seaman

Felsic magmas are the sources of the keystone components
              of continental crust, and of the most explosive volcanic eruptions that
              commonly occur on Earth.  The major factors in the evolution and eruptive
              behavior of felsic magmas are their water concentrations and their degree of
              oxidation.  In this study, synchrotron spectroscopy will be used to explore the
              possibility that plagioclase crystals preserve information about the oxidation
              state and the water concentration of the magmas from which the crystals grew. 
              Both Fe 3+/G Fe and H2 concentrations in the nominally anhydrous plagioclase
              will be measured and their use as proxies, for, respectively, oxygen fugacity
              and water concentration of the magmas that produced the crystals, will be
              explored.  Synchrotron microXANES (X-ray absorption near-edge structure)
              spectroscopy of oxidation state of Fe in plagioclase crystals is based on
              measuring small energy differences in cation/oxygen bonds between ferrous and
              ferric ions that bond to oxygen.  Synchrotron microFTIR (Fourier transform
              infrared) spectroscopy, like conventional FTIR spectroscopy, provides a
              correlation between the wavelength of light absorbed and the nature of chemical
              bonds in the mineral.  Synchrotron microFTIR analysis of H2 in plagioclase will
              utilize a very bright source, eliminating the need to remove and polish
              oriented single crystals, and allowing for the analysis of crystals in their
              spatial context.  These techniques will be tested on the Lower Purico
              ignimbrite (~1 Ma) in the Andean Altiplano Puna Volcanic Complex, for which
              independent measurements of maximum magmatic water concentrations have already
              been determined by SIMS and FTIR, and oxygen fugacity determinations have been
              made on the basis of crystallization temperatures and mineral equilibria by
              deSilva (1989, 1991) and Schmitt et al. (1998).  Along with testing these new
              techniques, goals of this study include acquiring insight into the interplay of
              oxygen fugacity, water concentration, mineral assemblage, and the eruption
              style of siliceous magmas across a large range of geologic time.


