              PI: Aimo Hinkkanen, University of Illinois at
              Urbana-Champaign
DMS-0200752

Abstract:

The six Painleve differential
              equations are prototypes of second order differential equations which do not
              have movable singularities. In this project, the principal investigator will
              study the following
fundamental problems for the Painleve equations and
              Painleve-related analysis. Firstly, the task of obtaining rigorous proofs for
              the Painleve property of the solutions to Painleve equations in the remaining
              open cases. Secondly, the question of finding sharp upper and lower bounds for
              the usual order of growth of single-valued meromorphic solutions, and for other
              natural measures 
of growth for multi-valued solutions, as well as the
              determination of the cases where less than maximal growth occurs. Thirdly,
              applications motivated particularly by differential geometry 
lead to the
              question of classifying Painleve-type differential equations which are allowed
              to
have movable branch points subject to restrictions on their multiplicity.
              The principal investigator will work towards such a classification and to
              determine whether certain particular equations arising in applications have
              this property.

Over the last ten years, after a quiet period of many
              decades, an enormous amount of literature has appeared on the Painleve
              equations and their generalizations, due to a great number of interdisciplinary
              connections and applications that have been found. On the theoretical side, the
              Painleve property is related to the concept of integrability for non-linear
              ordinary and partial differential equations. Other applications in pure
              mathematics include differential geometry and random matrix models. On the
              interdisciplinary side, the applications of Painleve
equations include the
              following: the Ising and antiferromagnet models in physics,
statistical
              mechanics in elasticity, quantum field theory and topological field
              theory,
general relativity and cosmology, supersymmetric gauge theories in
              physics,
resonant oscillations in shallow water, Hele-Shaw problems in viscous
              fluids,
plasma physics, superconductivity, nonlinear optics and fiber
              optics,
polymers, and polyelectrolytes. This provides a clear manifestation of
              the enabling
power of mathematics in science and engineering, and of the value
              that theoretical understanding and precise problem solving in mathematics can
              add to modeling and theory building
elsewhere. Work performed under this
              proposal will lead to a greater understanding of and concrete results for this
              class of differential equations which is being used in numerous
applications
              in other areas of mathematics as well as in other sciences and engineering.


