              An Advanced All Natural Composite Roof For Residential Construction


The
              objective of the proposed research is to develop a monolithic, all-natural
              composite roof system for residential construction. The roof will be fabricated
              from novel composite materials made from soybean oil resins and natural fibers.
              The composite resins are derived from soy beans, a seasonal crop that is
              already grown in large quantities in the U.S.; the natural fibers to be used
              are derived from seasonal crops grown specifically for the fiber or are
              byproducts and waste of other crops. The roof will be designed to carry all of
              the loads a conventional roof is designed for, will have an integral weather
              protection surface, and will offer intrinsic insulation. The specific
              objectives of the proposed project are to (1) design and optimize the soy-based
              resin, all-natural composite material for roof applications;  (2) develop and
              test a weather protection layer that is integral to the composite roof; and (3)
              design, analyze, and test the roof structural system. Organized through the
              University of Delaware Center for Composite Materials, the interdisciplinary
              effort brings together expertise in chemical engineering, materials science and
              engineering, and civil engineering. The research plan is organized into two
              primary thrusts: (1) materials research and (2) structural design and testing. 
              The materials research thrust will comprise (a) tailoring of all-natural resins
              for the composite roof system, (b) tailoring of composites for the roof system,
              and (c) aging, durability and development of a weather protection surface.  The
              structural design and testing thrust will address (a) preliminary designs, (b)
              analysis and testing of small components, and (c) analysis and testing of large
              roof components. The all-natural composite roof system combines a number of
              unique features that together will achieve the four PATH goals and bring about
              a significant advance in residential construction.

