              The main goal of this project is to describe equilibrium solutions to
boundary
              value problems for linear and nonlinear elliptic partial
differential
              equations.  The PI intends to prove existence and
regularity theorems for
              two-phase free boundary problems.  The PI will
also describe level sets of
              eigenfunctions, especially nodal sets,
maxima, and minima, and find optimal
              bounds on the shape of level sets
for convex domains even if the domain
              becomes long and thin.  Another
goal is to solve a problem in mathematical
              economics of finding all
possible functional forms of a price-independent
              social welfare
function (using methods of exterior algebra and
              overdetermined
systems).  A third goal is to characterize the camera image of
              a
building using the Fourier transform, that is, to characterize
              the
distortion of the periodic pattern on the face of the building if
              the
building is not exactly parallel to the camera.


The PI plans to
              describe the equilibrium between two phases in several
problems arising in
              physics and engineering.  The focus will be on the
boundary between two
              materials such as ice and water.  Other examples
include the boundary between
              two liquids and the profile of the wake
of a boat.  In another direction, the
              PI will attempt to confirm a
principle first proposed by J. Rauch that the
              point of maximum
temperature in an insulated room tends towards a wall as
              time
increases.  More generally, the PI will examine how the geometry of
              a
fixed boundary (as in the walls of a room) affects the shape of
surfaces of
              equal temperature at or near the equilibrium steady state
temperature.  In a
              third direction, the PI will try to find all
possible price-independent social
              welfare functions.  This is of
current interest because such functions are
              used to compare countries
and to describe the trend towards greater income
              inequality in the
1990s in the U. S. as well as earlier trends in the
              opposite
direction. The problem is that prices cannot be held fixed in
              such
comparisons.  The PI expects that price independence puts serious
limits
              on the functional forms allowed, which in turn puts limits on
the way
              comparisons can be made.  Finally, the PI proposes a project
intended to help
              solve the problem in computer vision of recognizing
the orientation of a
              building from a photograph.


