              This project conducts a large-scale comparative analysis of the impact of social
              cleavages - especially those based on class, religion, race/ethnicity, and
              gender - on voting behavior in 23 capitalist democracies since 1945.  It
              examines four questions that have been the subject of much controversy in
              recent years.  One, are social cleavages declining in importance as factors
              predicting individual voting behavior?  Two, do party strategies, issue and
              attitudinal differences, and social, economic, and political contexts explain
              the patterns of change over time across each cleavage?  Three, what individual
              and macro-level factors explain cross-national differences in the importance of
              cleavages? And four, what has been the impact of these changes on the electoral
              coalitions of major political parties?

To answer these questions, the
              project creates an original data set containing pooled information from over
              200 surveys done in 23 countries since 1945.  The investigators recode the data
              to provide cross-nationally comparable information on each respondent's class
              location, religion, gender, political attitudes, and voting behavior.  They
              next combine the survey data with national figures on ethnic-linguistic and
              religious heterogeneity, percentage of women in the labor force, percentage of
              regular church attendees, levels of social mobility, and welfare state
              expenditures.  They lastly add information to the data set on party platforms
              for most of the nations.  The investigators not only use the data to address
              the substantive questions about changes and national differences in social
              cleavage-based voting, but also make the data available to other researchers
              interested in comparative voting behavior.

