              This research has three broad aims.  First, the work will examine the nature and
              sources of growth in cognitive, language, and literacy skills during the
              transition from preschool to the early school years.  Utilizing an ecological
              perspective, the research will investigate specifically the interactive role of
              child (e.g., IQ, social skills), family (e.g., parental warmth/sensitivity,
              home learning environment), and schooling (e.g., amount of instruction in
              alphabet recognition) factors in shaping academic trajectories from three years
              of age to the end of kindergarten.  Second, the project will explore the
              utility of constructing and charting developmental pathways to literacy,
              employing a combination of analytic tools, including multiple regression and
              Structural Equation Modeling (SEM).  The combination of methods will permit
              creation of frameworks for describing complex, dynamic interactions among
              child, family, and schooling factors that shape literacy acquisition in young
              children making the transition to school.  Third, the "pathway" framework and
              analytic strategy will be utilized to investigate the sources of reading
              success or failure in early elementary school.  The conceptualization will
              combine the child, family, and schooling factors into a broad, comprehensive
              model of early reading acquisition.  

Two hundred 3-year-old children
              (following attrition) who attend center-based daycare or preschool and whose
              parents intend to enroll them in a local elementary school will participate in
              this three-year longitudinal study.  Children's cognitive, language, and
              literacy outcomes will be assessed with individually administered standardized
              instruments and non-standardized measures.  Additionally, information will be
              gathered on children's temperament and social skills.  Finally, parenting and
              schooling factors will be assessed using questionnaires and direct observation.
               A longitudinal design will be implemented, following children for three years
              from age three through age five. 

This research is likely to make
              substantial theoretical, methodological, and analytic contributions. In
              particular, the pathway strategy employing SEM permits a rigorous yet broad
              perspective capable of describing the complex, dynamic interactions among
              variables shaping early developmental trajectories.  In addition, the research
              may well have important implications for educational policy.  The findings will
              likely confirm the centrality of the early childhood years as one source of
              meaningful individual differences in important literacy, language, and
              cognitive skills.  Consequently, the results are likely to highlight the
              crucial role of parents in shaping children's early educational trajectories. 
              Moreover, finding important connections between children's learning-related
              social skills and academic growth implies that in preparing children to be
              maximally ready for school, socialization of children's developing
              independence, responsibility, and self-regulation should go hand in hand with
              the promotion of early literacy skills.  Finally, it is anticipated that
              different kinds of kindergarten instruction (e.g., teacher-directed versus
              child-directed) are likely to differentially benefit children with different
              skill levels.  Taken together, the findings should be of interest to parents of
              preschool children as well as to preschool educators, kindergarten teachers,
              and school personnel concerned with issues of school readiness, school
              transition, and risk factors of early school failure. 
