              0119329
Siddall and Burreson
	Dr. Mark Siddall of the American Museum of
              Natural History and his co-PI Dr. Eugene Burreson of the Virginia Institute of
              Marine Science are collaborating to assess and document the biodiversity of
              leech families of the world (the annelid order Hirudinea, with an estimated
              1000 species worldwide).  The basis for this work involves thorough
              determination and photodocumentation of leeches in natural history museums
              worldwide as well as several field expeditions to regions of poorly studied but
              high leech diversity globally.  This work comes at a time when leeches have
              experienced renewed interest from the biomedical community and yet
the field
              is in danger of losing the knowledge of those few scientists who have devoted
              themselves to understanding the scope of the world's hirudifauna.  Using
              various data-gathering technologies (for morphological and molecular sequence
              data) and data-analyzing algorithms, students will be trained in collecting,
              identifying and monographing species in the principal families, and will
              compile the information in a world-wide accessible database connecting taxon
              descriptions with images and publications related to them. Leeches occur in
              habitats that range from terrestrial to both marine and freshwater environments
              and are found on all continents. The remarkable diversity in morphology and
              behavior of leeches has been of interest to several fields of biology. The last
              fifteen years have seen an increase in the biomedical utility of leeches
              especially the promise of finding powerful anticoagulants and tumor-inhibiting
              antistasins in leech saliva. Leeches are enjoying a renaissance in their
              application (quite literally)
to post-operative hematomas. Their use routinely
              has led to faster healing following the reattachment of tissues with
              microsurgical procedures. Leeches also are used extensively in neurobiological
              and developmental studies. So far, only two or three species of leech are
              exploited for these purposes, largely because the world's diversity and family
              relationships are not well understood (usually Hirudo medicinalis and Limnatis
              nilotica, the European and African medicinal leeches respectively).  This grant
              seeks to make available that knowledge and to extend its scope in a
              comprehensive manner, while training a new generation of taxonomic specialists
              working in annelid systematics and biology.


