              Pervasive Information Communities Organization (PICO) is a framework to
create
              mission-oriented dynamic communities of software agents that perform tasks
on
              behalf of users and devices.  PICO provides automated continual services
              to
improve quality of life, and to utilize resources efficiently by
              enhancing
existing Internet services. PICO enabled Internet will be used
              effectively
in many dynamically changing time-critical applications that
              demand
proactive real-time collaborations among physical devices, software
              agents,
and personnel in heterogeneous environments.

The main components of
              PICO are software entities, called delegents
(intelligent delegates) and
              hardware entities, called camileuns (connected,
adaptive, mobile, intelligent,
              learned, efficient, ubiquitous nodes).

The novel features of PICO include:
              i) creation of mission-oriented dynamic
communities of software agents, ii)
              QoS management for just-in-time
communication and proactive collaboration
              among communities, and iii)
adaptability to dynamic environments through
              context- and
location-awareness.

As a pervasive computing paradigm, PICO
              has applications in many domains
such as telemedicine, the military, crisis
              management, and many day-to-day
activities. In this project the researchers
              focus on the design and development of PICO,
and investigate its applicability
              as a platform for distributed
collaborations.  Through telemedicine
              applications, the researchers demonstrate the full
potential of PICO as an
              Internet enhancement framework that is not only
unique, simple, and versatile,
              but can also work with current and future
hardware/software tools.
              Specifically, the proposed tasks include: formal
specifications, design, and
              development of PICO architecture; requirements
analysis for telemedicine
              scenario; QoS and resource management; PICO
prototype development; and
              validation, performance evaluation and
benchmarking. PICO-enabled pervasive
              environments will revolutionize the way
the Internet is being used, enhance
              quality of life and promote user-centric
applications. The PICO project will
              result in the training of students in
pervasive computing, high quality
              masters and doctoral theses, and transfer
of technology to health care
              providers, professionals and other researchers.

