              0212779
Hahn and Noblick
Dr. William Hahn of Columbia University and Dr. Larry
              Noblick of the Montgomery Botanical Center are combining their molecular and
              morphological expertise to study the systematics and evolution of the coconut,
              Cocos nucifera, and its taxonomic relatives. The coconut is one of the three
              most economically important species of palms, yet its origins and relationships
              are poorly understood. The palm tribe Cocoeae consists of 22 genera (including
              the coconut) with two genera in Madagascar, one genus in South Africa, the
              coconut in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, and the remaining 18 genera in the
              New World. Available taxonomies for the tribe are in need of critical
              reevaluation as several different taxonomies have been proposed over the past
              few decades. An estimate of evolutionary relationships is needed to resolve
              these taxonomic debates as well as controversy over the geographic origin of
              the coconut. The species appears to be native to Southeast Asia and the South
              Pacific, but all of its close relatives are found in Africa, Madagascar, or the
              New World. Because of its remarkable ability to disperse by floating, both
              natural and human-mediated dispersal have been suggested to explain its origins
              and current distribution. Two primary geographic scenarios have been proposed:
              from Madagascar/Africa across the Indian Ocean or from the Americas across the
              Pacific Ocean. An explicit examination of the coconut's relationships to other
              palms is necessary to choose between these competing biogeographic
              hypotheses.
Dr. Hahn and Dr. Noblicks's research uses modern molecular and
              morphological phylogenetic methods to reconstruct the evolutionary history of
              the coconut and related species and to develop a molecular clock framework for
              the evaluation of rates of diversification. Morphological and molecular data
              will be accumulated to estimate evolutionary relationships among the 22 genera
              that form tribe Cocoeae, with anticipated improvements to genus-level
              circumscription and classification. Molecular clocks (based on multiple nuclear
              and plastid genes) will be used to date divergence events among the taxa in
              this tribe and to estimate the time of origin for the coconut. Based on these
              results, tests of alternative taxonomic and biogeographic hypotheses can be
              conducted, leading to a better understanding of the evolutionary process in an
              economically important crop species. Both graduate and undergraduate students
              will be supported in this project and will be instructed in field, botanical
              garden, herbarium, computer, and molecular evolutionary techniques. Results of
              these studies will also be presented in the public education programs of the
              Montgomery Botanical Center in Miami, Florida.

