              This renewal project continues work on developing new data and a new approach to
              the study of representation. It uses the legislatures of the states and the US
              Congress as 101 representative systems through which we can study the linkages
              between constituency, party and roll call voting.  This comparative perspective
              provides substantial advantages over previous work by taking the research
              designs beyond the limitations of a case study of a single institution and by
              providing enough variation in institutional rules and procedures, electoral
              settings and constituency preferences to achieve deeper understanding of the
              factors that enhance or retard governmental responsiveness to citizen
              preferences.   The greatest obstacle to this approach in the past has been a
              simple lack of data.  Roll call records are used to gauge legislators' policy
              positions within the legislatures, but, except for the U.S. Congress, these are
              not compiled in any easily available format for scientific analyses.  This
              project has addressed that shortcoming with the development of a methodology of
              computer-assisted extraction of roll call data from the variety of sources and
              formats in which this information is found in the states.  This approach to
              data generation is dramatically more efficient and less error-prone than
              traditional methods of hand coding and manual data entry.  The methodology has
              been well-developed during the initial grant period and virtually a full set of
              roll calls and matching presidential vote totals for legislative districts have
              been compiled for the 1999-2000 sessions.  Initial analyses point to the
              central importance of parties in the electorate and in the legislatures for
              policy representation and electoral accountability, and the researchers have
              found that parties take on a variety of roles, both in elections and in the
              legislatures. 
This project continues that work on four fronts. First,
              analysis of the completed data sets permits verification and expansion on the
              initial findings concerning the role of party and constituency in legislators'
              roll call voting.  Second, the approximately fifty thousand roll call votes
              that have been compiled are coded to facilitate analyses by policy area or
              types of bills.  Third, information on legislative electoral returns and the
              socio-political backgrounds of legislators is added to the data collection to
              increase substantially the analytic leverage of the roll call and constituency
              information.  Fourth, a longitudinal component to the data collection is
              undertaken to permit analyses of change and stability in representation and
              legislative policy making.  One aspect of this is the replication of the
              1999-2000 data compilation with a full post-reapportionment roll call record of
              the 101 legislative chambers.  This adds significantly to the investigators'
              ability to establish the temporal stability of legislative coalitions and the
              ideological positioning of legislators over time as well as to assess
              institutional changes like redistricting and term limits. The second aspect of
              this is the collection of the full time series of roll calls for the
              approximately half of the legislative chambers for which roll calls are
              web-accessible.  This is possible by building on the expertise developed in the
              initial grant period, so that for a relatively modest investment, the project
              will produce for the research community a quantum increase in the data
              resources for comparative study of legislative policy making in the U.S.  
              Besides greatly expanding the data resources for research on representation and
              policy making in the American legislatures, the project contributes to our
              understanding of how political contexts, institutional configurations and
              diversity influence the effectiveness of elections and political parties as
              mechanisms of citizen control of government.   

