              0074841
Lebron

This project addresses the problem of quantifying the
              influence of solution composition on soil hydraulic properties.  The knowledge
              of these properties is necessary to assess transport of contaminants in soil
              and subsequent remediation, to predict release and sequestration of CO2, and to
              interpret and improve the use of remotely sensed soil data such as
              determination of salinity from electrical resistivity data and determination of
              water content from satellite information.  Flow and transport of water and
              solutes in soils are controlled by size, geometry and characteristics of the
              soil porosity.  Most of the characteristics of the soil pores are microscopic,
              such as roughness and circularity.  Conventional models of liquid distribution,
              flow and solute transport rely solely on cylindrical pores, while ignoring the
              role of surface area, angularity, and connectivity.  Neural networks have been
              used to predict water retention properties in soils using macro and microscopic
              parameters.  These models have tremendous potential to derive pedotransfer
              functions (PTFs) to predict hydraulic parameters.  However the PTFs available
              in the literature do not consider the chemical composition of the soil solution
              nor data considering the mineralogy of the clay minerals in the soil.  Clay
              mineral and chemical composition are known to be critical determinants of the
              hydraulic properties in soils with swelling clays, especially if they are
              affected by sodicity.  The main objective of this project is to quantify the
              influence of salinity, sodicity and pH on the geometry, size, and distribution
              of the soil pore space.  This quantification will provide the information for
              developing PTFs using neural network and bootstrap methodology and is intended
              to improve our capability to predict soil hydraulic properties.

