              9813449
Greenwood
The application of evolutionary computation (EC) techniques
              to various optimization problems in molecular biology has become increasingly
              common.  Of considerable interest is the prediction of side-chain conformations
              in proteins [1, 2].  Because of the high density of side-chains in the protein
              interior, side-chain conformations are determined by packing considerations,
              which involve steric effects with other side-chains.  The solution is difficult
              because of the large number of combinations possible.  Nevertheless, an
              efficient solution to this problem is essential for most ab initio protein
              structure prediction procedures.  It will also aid in determining permissible
              mutation sites for increased protein stability and for a large scale protein
              re-design.
Each point in the search space of an optimization problem
              represents a unique solution; optimization algorithms are therefore search
              algorithms.  EC algorithms are probabilistic optimization algorithms which
              conduct searchs using the principles of Darwinian evolution.  For the
              side-chain packing problem (SCPP), each individual in a population represents a
              distinct side-chain conformation.  During each generation (iteration of the EC
              algorithm), stochastic reproduction operators perturb existing conformations to
              produce new conformations.  The optimization problem provides a measure of the
              solution's quality which is indicated by the individual's fitness. (In SCPP
              high fitness may represent a minimal van der Waals interaction energy.) Highly
              fit individuals will tend to survive and reproduce in future generations. 
              Studies have shown that the EC algorithms are superior to Monte Carlo methods
              in molecular biology optimization problems [2, 3, 4].
Genetic Algorithms (GAs)
              have been the predominant EC algorithm applied to SCPP (e.g., see [5]).  Yet,
              there are certain aspects of CAs which suggests they may not be the best EC
              algorithm for molecular biology problems [6, 7).  This work will use an ES to
              find optimum packing arrangements for side-chains.' The ES algorithm has never
              been used to find solutions to protein structure prediction problems. 
              Nevertheless, the ES algorithm may well prove to be superior to the GA approach
              if the results of previous work with atomic clusters are any indication
              [7].
For this work the Cc' positions of the protein backbone will be assumed
              fixed, but the peptide groups of the backbone will be assumed rotatable and
              their optimum orientations will be found as a part of the side-chain packing
              optimization problem.  The bond lengths and angles will also be fixed so the EC
              must only identify the peptide orientation angles and the side-chain torsion
              angles.  The fitness will be determined using an energy function that includes
              the van der Waals interaction, hydrogen bonding, and hydrophobic
              effects.
***

