              AST 0098676
Kulkarni

Cosmic gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are among the most
              spectacular, known phenomena in the universe.  They consist of short outbursts
              (fractions of seconds to a few minutes) of high-energy radiation originating in
              distant regions of the universe, There are a few such outbursts observed per
              day.  These were first observed by the US Vela satellites in the early 1960's.
              They have remained one of the major mysteries of astrophysics for the past 30
              years. 

In the late 1990's breakthrough discoveries found that the bursts
              originated in faint galaxies, at typical distances of several billion light
              years.  Measurements of distances to the bursts, using large, ground-based
              telescopes, revealed that apparently some of them emit prodigious amounts of
              energy; larger than the total amount of energy produced by our Sun over its
              entire projected lifespan of about 10 billion years, but compressed into a few
              seconds!  While theories abound, the ultimate cause of these amazing cosmic
              explosions remains unknown.  However, it now seems likely that at least some
              bursts represent "birth cries" of black holes, produced in the explosion of
              massive stars ("hypernovas").  Current research suggests that the GRB
              phenomenon is closely related to the history of star formation in the universe,
              and that it can be used as a novel probe of early cosmic evolution.  It is also
              likely that most GRBs produce highly collimated jets of very energetic
              particles and radiation, effectively becoming giant accelerators
in the sky. 
              While a lot has been learned over the past few years, much more remains to be
              found about the source and the ultimate physical mechanism behind these
              remarkable cosmic explosions. 

The keys to this further understanding lies
              in (1) detailed observations of their afterglows seen at wavelengths ranging
              from radio waves, through visible light and out to x-rays; (2) additional
              measurements of the distances to these enigmatic events; and (3) a better
              understanding of their environments and the distant galaxies in which they
              originate.  This is the subject of the present
project.  Using the worlds
              largest optical/infrared telescopes (the 10-m Keck telescopes in Hawaii and the
              large telescopes at Mt. Palomar in California), and the world's premier radio
              telescopes (e.g., the Very Large Array in New Mexico) to observe GRBs when they
              are first identified and to continue to observe them as they decline in
              brightness, the goal is to construct a wide enough bank of data to permit
              testing and winnowing of the scores of theoretical models presently under
              study. Funding for this project was provided by the NSF program for
              Extragalactic Astronomy & Cosmology (AST/EXC).
***


