              Divisions of Chemistry, Materials Research, Bioengineering and Environmental
              Systems, and Molecular and Cellular Biosciences support this multidivisional
              award to William Marsh Rice University. This Nanoscale Interdisciplinary
              Research Team (NIRT) proposal was submitted in response to the solicitation
              "Nanoscale Science and Engineering" (NSF 00-119).  Under this project, Vicki
              Colvin, a material chemist with experience in template chemistry, Daniel
              Mittleman, an optical engineer and George Phillips, a biologist with expertise
              in protein crystal growth, will develop crystalline and monolithic
              nanostructured metal and ceramic materials using crystals of streptavidin,
              lysozyme and related proteins.  These protein crystalline structures will be
              reinforced by glutaraldehyde cross-linking before the templating.  X-ray
              diffraction studies and atomic force microscope imaging will be used to
              characterize the prepared materials with respect to crystal symmetry,
              periodicity and overall quality of the crystal arrangement. These porous and
              three-dimensional open crystalline inorganic structures with nanometer spacing
              may find applications in diffraction gradients, lenses, mirrors and other
              devices for soft X-ray optics.  The research program will also provide a rich
              multidisciplinary education and training opportunities in material and protein
              chemistries to postdoctoral, graduate and undergraduate students.

Under the
              award, ordered mesoporous nanostructured metal and ceramic materials will be
              fabricated using cross-linked protein crystals as sacrificial templates. The
              broader impact of the project is the understanding the formation of
              nanostructures, the templating effect of different protein crystal scaffolding,
              and the determination of optical properties of the mesoporous structures
              prepared in the soft X-ray range of the spectrum.  In addition, the research
              program will provide a rich multidisciplinary education and training
              opportunities in materials chemistry, protein chemistry and optics to graduate
              and undergraduate students.
