              The growing size of the Internet and the emergence of new applications that
              require Quality of Service
mandate radical changes in the way that network
              switches buffer data.  This growing demand for bandwidth has pushed the
              architectures of existing output-buffered and shared-buffer switches to their
              maximum scalability limits.  Input-buffered architectures overcome scalability
              limits by evenly distributing the queuing operations over all ports of the
              switch.  Scaling the aggregate bandwidth of a switch, however, does
not
              necessarily guarantee that an individual application's traffic flow is serviced
              fairly.  Switches that provide per-flow queuing fairly allocate bandwidth and
              provide bounded delay.  Existing switches provide either scalability or
              per-flow queuing, but none provide both.

This research will implement a new
              hardware module that enables a scalable switch to provide per-flow queuing. 
              This new module, called the WU-iiQ, will add enhanced queuing features to the
              highly scalable Washington University Gigabit Switch (WUGS).  The logic for
              this card will be implemented with a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)
              device, enabling it to implement a variety of queuing algorithms.  The WU-iiQ
              will contain high-capacity Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory (SDRAM) to
              buffer ATM cells and Static Random Access Memory (SRAM) to store data
              structures and pointers for algorithms that perform per-flow queuing.

The
              flexibility of the WU-iiQ has made the card of interest for several
              applications at this and other academic institutions.  The reprogrammable logic
              on the WU-iiQ enables it to implement a variety of per-flow functions,
              including packet scheduling, traffic shaping, and congestion control.  While
              all of these projects are different, they can all be implemented by using the
              same hardware.

This project proposes to implement the WU-iiQ hardware and
              distribute it to research institutions that require such hardware to experiment
              with per-flow queuing mechanisms.  Documentation for this WU-iiQ module will be
              made available via the World Wide Web.  A library of commonly-needed hardware
              functions, including those that implement per-flow queuing operations, will be
              available for download.


