              The physical, chemical and biological properties of matter undergo transitions
              over critical length scales in the range of 1-50 nanometers, leading to a
              diversity of new functionality. The investigation of fundamentally new
              phenomena is coupled with commercial interest in the development of devices
              based on nanostructured materials.  This research project will investigate a
              novel technique for the controlled synthesis of mono-disperse, nanograined
              materials.  Chemical and physical processing of materials on the nanoscale will
              be combined for the growth of coatings with columnar nanocrystalline grains of
              uniform size and distribution, which will be tuned on the nanometer scale.  The
              formation of ordered, mono-disperse, dimensionally-controlled nanotemplates by
              chemical self-assembly will be followed by selective pulsed laser heating of
              the nanotemplates in synchronization with a pulsed dual-laser ablation growth
              process.  This technique will be extended to commercially viable large-area
              deposition by substituting a pulsed, hollow-cathode plasma deposition process
              in lieu of the dual-laser ablation process.  Our prior discoveries in pulsed
              laser ablation and plasma deposition will provide the basis for the growth
              processes.  Au and TiO2 nanoparticles will be used as the template material
              while the hard coatings will be made using TiN and SiC, as representative
              examples. Morphological, structural and mechanical properties of the
              nanostructured material will be investigated for varying nanograin size and
              separation.  The mechanical functionality of the nanograined coatings will be
              assessed by studying film properties such as hardness, ductility and wear
              resistance, yielding fundamental insight into the correlation of elastic
              properties with the nanocrystalline grain dimensions.  Such studies have not
              been possible in the past because of poly-dispersity in grain sizes.
    
The
              project will involve the hands-on training of graduate and undergraduate
              students in the exciting area of nanomanufacturing that is of national
              importance, and lead to curricular enhancements at both the graduate and
              undergraduate level.  Pre-college outreach through annual summer workshops for
              high school teachers and research opportunities for high school students,
              particularly women and minorities, will permit the early introduction of
              suitable aspects of this emerging area to promote future careers in
              nanomanufacturing. If successful, the impact of the research project will be
              the development of a new hybrid manufacturing process combining chemical and
              physical processing on the nanoscale with nano-micro-meso scale integration.
              Potential applications include not only the investigation of new physical
              phenomena at the nanometer scale but also a manufacturing process with changes
              in functionality leading to improvements in mechanical properties of hard
              coatings.  

