              0139974
Griffiths
 Much of modern technology, including computers, lasers, and
              magnetic
resonance imaging, utilizes the principles of quantum mechanics,
              the
physicist's most fundamental theory of nature, and would not be possible
              if
this theory had never been invented.  Given this success, one might
              suppose
that quantum mechanics would by now be as well understood as other
              foundation
stones of modern science, such as thermodynamics and relativity
              theory.  On the
contrary, as Richard Feynman, one of the great physicists of
              the 20th century,
once put it, "Nobody understands quantum mechanics."  The
              lack of a clear
understanding, to which Feynman was referring, has not,
              obviously, prevented
quantum mechanics from being applied to a vast range of
              technological devices.
But students are frustrated when they try and learn the
              subject from teachers
and textbooks whose lack of clarity illustrates the
              truth of Feynman's remark.
Clearing up the conceptual mess in its foundations
              would certainly not detract
from, and might even assist in, the technological
              applications of quantum
mechanics, and could well prove important for future
              developments in areas such
as quantum computation and quantum cryptography,
              where impressive advances are
accompanied by equally spectacular gaps in our
              current understanding.

        This research project, as indicated in the
              title, has a double focus.
One is the use of quantum histories - a promising
              approach developed by various
people including Murray Gell-Mann, a Nobel
              laureate who at one time was
Feynman's colleague at Cal Tech - for addressing
              and clearing up the conceptual
difficulties in the foundations of quantum
              theory.  Several major paradoxes,
including the famous double slit, have been
              resolved using the histories
approach, and this method gets rid of mysterious
              long-range influences that are
present in some older interpretations of
              quantum mechanics, and which are hard
to reconcile with relativity theory. 
              However, up till now these new
developments have been confined to the
              technical literature, and they need to
be moved into classrooms and textbooks
              if they are to make the subject more
accessible to the next generation of
              scientists.  There is plenty of work to be
done, both in making abstract
              mathematical formulations more understandable
through simple physical
              examples, and in convincing teachers and textbook
writers that students
              deserve something better than the traditional
("Copenhagen") approach, the one
              Feynman could not understand.

        The second focus of this research is
              quantum information theory, the
fundamental science behind both quantum
              computing and quantum cryptography.
Classical information theory was developed
              half a century ago by Claude
Shannon, and plays an important role in the
              modern theory of communication, as
in the efficient use of weak radio signals
              to transmit information from distant
space probes to the earth.  Quantum
              information theory generalizes Shannon's
ideas to situations where quantum
              effects are important, and while it has had
some notable successes, it has
              also run into the following difficulty:
Shannon's formulation is based on the
              use of probabilities, but incorporating
probabilities into quantum mechanics
              in a consistent way is the source of many
of the conceptual difficulties that
              troubled Feynman.  The histories approach
resolves the problem of quantum
              probabilities in a consistent manner that
allows an immediate extension of
              many of Shannon's ideas into the quantum
domain.  Whether this provides a
              satisfactory foundation for quantum
information theory remains to be seen, but
              it looks promising.  If it succeeds,
there will be a double benefit: a clearer
              understanding of what quantum
computing and cryptography can and cannot do,
              and a new way to think about
quantum mechanical processes in terms of the
              generation and transmission of
information. 




