              
James W. Kirchner
EAR-0000999

	Physical erosion and chemical weathering
              are interdependent processes that sculpt mountainous landscapes, regulate the
              composition of soils, deliver sediment and solutes to aquatic habitats, and,
              over long timescales, help regulate global climate.  Until recently, long-term
              rates of erosion and chemical weathering have been difficult to measure.  As a
              result there is presently no clear consensus about how erosion and weathering
              affect the evolution of landscapes, soils, aquatic habitats, and climate. 
              
	Recent advances now permit long-term average rates of physical erosion and
              chemical weathering to be inferred from the chemical composition of eroding
              sediment in watersheds.  The concentrations of cosmogenic nuclides (26Al and
              10Be) can be used to measure long-term rates of erosion.  Chemical weathering
              rates can be inferred from erosion rates by comparing the concentrations of
              insoluble elements (such as Zr and Nb) in rocks and soils, which reflect the
              fraction of erosion that is accounted for by chemical weathering.
	This
              project will measure how chemical weathering rates vary with climate and
              physical erosion rates.  Preliminary results show that climatic effects on
              weathering rates are small compared to erosional effects.  However, the
              climatic effects are measurable, when the effects of erosion are explicitly
              accounted for.  To expand on these results, six sites have been selected that
              span a wide range of climates (4 to 24 C in temperature; 10 to 420 cm/yr in
              precipitation).  To minimize effects of variations in bedrock weathering
              susceptibility, this study will focus exclusively on granitic bedrock.  At each
              of the six sites, 5 small watersheds will be selected, and samples of stream
              sediment, bedrock, and hillslope soils will be collected for analysis. 
              Cosmogenic nuclide concentrations in the stream sediment will be used to
              measure long-term erosion rates.  The fraction of erosion that is accounted for
              by chemical weathering than will be inferred by comparing the bulk chemical
              composition of soil and bedrock.  This project will quantify how long-term
              rates of weathering and erosion vary with climate while, for the first time,
              explicitly measuring how chemical weathering and physical erosion interrelate. 
              These results should contribute to better models of nutrient cycles and
              long-term climatic evolution, more accurate assessments of sediment and solute
              delivery to aquatic ecosystems, and a more quantitative understanding of soil
              development and landform evolution.


