              Chemistry (12)

We are developing a complete Linked and Layered Resource for
              Collaborative, Technology-Based Learning in Physical Chemistry. The resource,
              Quantum States of Atoms and Molecules, is grounded in progressive pedagogical
              methods, uses appropriate computer technology, and makes firm connections
              between fundamental principles, physical reality, physical models, and
              mathematical descriptions of reality and the models. The resource would be
              unconventional in both form and structure. It is designed to engage students in
              the process of learning and help them develop skills in information processing,
              critical thinking and problem solving. It also takes advantage of existing
              knowledge on how adults and young adults learn. The product would consist of
              two parts: an inexpensive soft-cover text and a comprehensive multimedia CD.
              The text would present the core concepts linked to spectroscopy in an easy to
              understand prose style. The entire text would be on the CD with active
              hyperlinks to web and computer-based activities that engage students in active
              learning. Some hyperlinks would point to animations and simulations to provide
              dramatic visualization of concepts, chemical processes, and molecular-level
              phenomena. Other links would connect to concept and math supplements to provide
              greater depth, detailed derivations, and review relevant math concepts within a
              chemistry context. Such linking should make it easy for students to review
              material on a need to know basis as they advance through the text without
              having pages and sections that interrupt the narrative. A final set of links
              would point to Mathcad symbolic math templates that will be used in both a
              guided-discovery mode and as a resource for students in building their own
              Mathcad documents for assigned problems and activities. An instructor's manual
              and sets of numerical solutions to exercises and problems are also being
              created for the project.

