              This project contains two components: (1) The astrophysical research focuses on
              a program to produce approximate gravitational waveforms to provide useful
              information to ongoing gravitational wave detection experiments on a faster
              time scale than that likely to be needed for an accurate numerical simulation.
              In their last few orbits of inspiral, and in their final plunge
and merger,
              these binaries strongly curve spacetime and strongly emit gravitational waves.
              A complete understanding of this process, and of the gravitational waveforms
              produced, will require much further development of supercomputer evolution
              codes. The approach here is to use an approximation scheme for the gradual
              late-stage binary inspiral followed by supercomputer evolution for the final
              inward plunge and merger of the holes. The method exploits the fact that the
              spacetime of the gradual inspiral differs very little from that of a perfectly
              periodic binary. This gradual inspiral is therefore approximated by an exactly
              periodic orbit. These periodic orbits can be used to construct a
              quasiequilibrium sequence representing the gradual pre-plunge decrease in
              radius of the binary, and to give a good approximation to the corresponding
              gravitational waveform. (2) An outstanding problem in theoretical physics is
              how to reconcile the principles of quantum theory with those of general
              relativity. In general relativity, spacetime does not have any fixed structure
              which is not dynamical but governs dynamics from outside as an unmoved mover.
              On the other hand, quantum theory depends on such structures. This project
              views Einstein's theory as a model on which one can clarify how to quantize a
              system with no external structure without introducing an external structure.
              The first main theme here is that foliations can be viewed not as fixed
              elements but as free variables which help us to build phase space from
              spacetime foliation. The second main theme is more specific. A black hole is
              formed by a spherical collapse of quantum matter that produces quantum geometry
              without its own degrees of freedom will be studied. A mean geometry and its
              fluctuations will be determined, and a study will be made of how the radiation
              produced on this background differs from the thermal radiation fields. 

At
              present, relativistic gravitation is of crucial interest both at the frontier
              of astrophysics
and at the frontier of theoretical physics. This project
              contains research of both types. In addition to its broad impacts on the two
              frontiers of gravitational physics, this project will also provide broad
              theoretical training to postdoctoral researchers and students. 

