              Proposal #9974517
Lisa Elferink

Synaptic transmission is the primary form of
              communication between neurons.  It is a highly regulated process that underlies
              virtually all neuronalpathways, from simple reflexes to higher order brain
              function such as learning and memory.  Synaptic transmission involves the
              release of neurotransmitters from synaptic and secretory vesicles by exocytosis
              followed by the retrieval of vesicle membranes by endocytosis.  Therefore
              endocytosis is essential for the continued secretory function of neural cells. 
              Impairment of this process is likely to result in paralysis or mental
              disorders.  The long term goal of this proposal is to examine the molecular
              mechanism mediating secretory vesicle recycling and its role in synaptic
              transmission.  Rab GTPases are a family of monomeric proteins involved in
              membrane transport.  Rab15 will form a focal point for these studies since its
              expression is enriched over other endosomal rabs in cells with high levels of
              secretion such as neurons and neuroendocrine cells.  Moreover, rab15 localizes
              to early endosomes in non-neuronal cells, consistent with its proposed role in
              endocytosis.  This proposal describes experiments that examine the role of
              rab15 in secretory vesicle recycling.  First we will identify the endocytic
              transport step regulated by rab15 in non-neuronal cells - key findings will be
              applied to neuroendocrine cells.
Second, we will determine rab15's subcellular
              localization in neuroendocrine cells.  Finally, we will examine the role of
              rab15 in secretory vesicle recycling.  Together, these studies will shed new
              light
on the role of rab15 in regulating the recycling of secretory vesicles
              during synaptic transmission and more generally, on the molecular mechanisms
              determining the specificity of endocytosis in all cell types.


