              0090286  Allison, David
In what tissues are specific genes expressed? What
              circumstances alter a gene's expression levels? Which genes "co-express" as
              functional families? Microarrays can measure expression of thousands of genes
              simultaneously in tissues of any organism, providing unprecedented power for
              studying gene expression. However, many questions about microarray technology
              and the resulting data remain unanswered. Questions surround sample size
              requirements, measurement quality, testing for group differences in expression
              levels in the face of vast multiple testing, and optimal grouping (clustering)
              methods. Few scientists with theoretical/quantitative science expertise are
              addressing these questions and those that are still struggle for answers.
This
              program offers an interdisciplinary inter-institutional Network of scientists
              opportunities to work synergistically on such questions. Goals are: a)
              Facilitate communication and brainstorming among interested scientists who may
              be geographically or otherwise isolated; b) Stimulate methodological
              developments in microarray analysis; c) Provide increased opportunities for
              dissemination of developments to the scientific community; and d) Support entry
              of new and established quantitative/theoretical scientists into this area. The
              Network includes computer scientists, geneticists, statisticians,
              bioinformaticists, measurement theorists, and microarray technology experts
              plus microarray users. It has two primary activities: a) an annual retreat at a
              secluded location; b) an inter-institution scholar exchange. Investigators with
              varying backgrounds but common interests in microarrays will interact in
              settings facilitating open and contemplative communication. Supplementary
              activities will disseminate information to the broader scientific community.
              This program can greatly enhance the practice of microarray analysis thereby
              generating new basic biological knowledge impacting fields ranging from
              forestry to agriculture to medicine.

