              Szyperski
MCB 0075773

This research focusses on the development and
              application of novel Bio-NMR techniques which promise to have a broad imact for
              science infrastructure beyond use in structural genomics.

NMR is expected to
              play an important role to harvest the fruits of genome sequencing projects by
              supporting the functional analysis of gene products in "structural genomics". 
              The mass production of protein structures in the framework of this "big
              science" project requires new methodology for cost-effective structure
              determination.  This research is dedicated to further develop
              reduced-dimensionality (RD) triple resonance NMR experiments for use in
              "structural genomics".  Such spectroscopy promises to be ideally suited because
              it allows, firstly, matching of  the NMR measurement time to sensitivity
              requirements for signal detection while retaining a high digital resolution for
              automated spectral analysis, and secondly, assigning proteins with a smaller
              set of NMR spectra when compared with conventional spectroscopy.  The current
              proposal invokes both fundamental research, i.e., Bio-NMR methods development,
              and applied research targeting the commercial effeciency of NMR parks or
              consortia operated for structural genomics projects.  

Research will aim at
              the development of a protocol that allows identification of minimal sets of NMR
              spectra for structure determination of a given protein in a structural genomics
              enterprise.  Considering RD NMR experiments, this will allow one retaining a
              high digital resolution when investments of spectrometer time have to be
              minimized, as it can be expected within the frameworkk of a structural genomics
              project.  Moreover, for application in structural genomics, the impact of RD
              spectroscopy for the automatic resonance assignment of proteins will be
              evaluated, and an 'RD NMR package' comprising RD pulse programs, NMR parameter
              sets and job-files for automated spectral analysis will be devised.  Moreover,
              research will focus on the implementation of improved RD experiments including
              a suite of schemes that allows measurement of residual dipolar couplings in
              dilute liquid crystalline media.  This development opens an avenue to merge
              their measurement with the resonance assignment, as well as to make use of
              variations of sums of scalar and residual dipolar couplings along the
              polypeptide chain to establish sequential connectivities.

This research
              offers outstanding opportunities for involving students at all stages in their
              academic development, and can be expected to play a valuable role in
              integrating research and education.

