              Abstract

MEMS that interact with liquids are of great interest in the
              biomedical, pharmaceutical, chemical, consumer product and defense industries.
              MEMS operation in liquid environments is particularly challenging because (1)
              significant driving forces are required to displace the potentially large
              'added mass' of fluid and (2) liquid viscosities damp oscillatory motion. 
              Also, chemical interaction between the liquid and MEMS materials may lead to
              structural or electrical failure.  For MEMS immersed in flowing liquids,
              particles and bubbles may alter the device performance.  Consistent and
              predictable operation throughout the device lifetime (reliability) is critical
              for commercializing MEMS.  
The primary objective of the proposed study is to
              investigate and understand the effects of liquids and particle- or bubble-laden
              liquids on microdevice short- and long-term performance.  A second objective is
              to demonstrate effective designs and design limitations for reliable
              performance in liquids. To achieve these goals, the performance of oscillating
              micro-cantilever beams will be studied in liquid-filled cavities and in flowing
              liquids.  The beams will be constructed using typical MEMS structural film
              materials and electrically insulating coatings. The devices will be oscillated
              at their resonant frequency for up to 1010 cycles, and any changes in
              performance will be noted. To isolate loss in performance caused by structural
              failures from shorting failures, the effects of both nonconducting and
              conducting liquid environments will be examined.
The study will incorporate
              experiments designed to quantify both structural and fluid motion.  In
              transparent liquids, beam resonant frequency, quality factor, and displacement
              will be measured by laser vibrometry.  Sensing elements integral to the beams
              will be used to monitor resonant frequency in opaque, particle-laden or bubbly
              liquids. The particle and bubble motion in flowing liquid environments will be
              visualized through a microscope and recorded with a high-resolution digital
              camera.  Image processing will be used to determine liquid velocity variations
              as well as particle and bubble velocities.  Experimental results will be
              compared with existing reliability studies in gaseous environments to determine
              commonalities and differences in the factors affecting device performance. 
              
Intellectual merit:  This is the first known investigation of reliability for
              MEMS devices operating in liquid environments.  Since such devices are
              extremely desirable (and already under development) in a variety of industries,
              the experimental data and analysis will be useful to engineers in many
              applications. The results of this basic study can be generalized to practical
              guidelines for MEMS structural materials and coatings to ensure reliable,
              long-term operation in various liquid environments.  The proposed study will
              draw on the interdisciplinary expertise of the P.I.'s to develop these
              guidelines.   
Broad impact:  The significance of the proposed work to
              industry is described above.  Two Ph.D. students will be funded by this
              project.  Also, undergraduate researchers and high school physics teachers will
              perform and participate in short-term investigations during the summers.  The
              teachers are expected to bring their experiences with cutting edge measurement
              techniques and engineering applications back to the classroom.

