              
The principal investigator intends to explore common trends in representation
              theory of reductive algebraic groups over local non-Archimedian fields and
              representation theory of affine Kac-Moody algebras. In particular, he is
              interested in finding a unified description of the Whittaker functionals in
              these two representation theories using geometry.  Understanding the underlying
              geometry of the Whittaker functions should provide new insights into the
              Langlands correspondence over the field of rational functions on an algebraic
              curve, either over a finite field or over the field of complex numbers.  A
              closely related project is to prove the geometric Langlands conjecture using
              the theory of ``Whittaker sheaves'' on the Drinfeld moduli spaces.  On the
              other hand, the investigator intends to continue his study of deformed
              W-algebras and their connections with representation theory of quantum affine
              algebras.  It is expected that this study will lead to better understanding of
              the nature of the Langlands duality.

In summary, the main idea of the
              proposed research is that seemingly disparate areas of mathematics, such as
              representations theory and geometry contain various hidden common trends. 
              Recently, several deep phenomena have been observed, such as the Langlands
              duality.  The investigator believes that these phenomena are so fundamental
              that they should manifest themselves in one way or another in many different
              areas of mathematics.  The goal is to uncover them where they are still
              unknown, and this way understand the precise nature of the phenomenon.  This
              may also reveal new and unexpected connections between different fields,
              through which new insights may be gained into fundamental problems of
              mathematics.


