              Abstract
Wallach

This project will study several related problems in
              representation theory, non-commutative harmonic analysis and algebraic group
              theory.  In representation theory it involves the construction, study and
              application of small unitary representations of real reductive groups.  In
              harmonic analysis, it involves dropping the K-finite condition in Paley-Wiener
              theorems for rapidly decreasing functions on a real reductive group.  This
              analysis will be applied to proving a version of the Casselman-Wallach theorem
              depending on parameters.  This theorem will imply a meromorphic continuation of
              non-K-finite Eisenstein series.  Related to these more analytic problems we
              will study the algebraic problem of determining graded multiplicities for the
              irreducible constituents of the action of a reductive algebraic group on an
              affine cone.  The latter work also has applications to the analysis and to the
              study of measures of entanglement in quantum computing.

Representation
              theory has its roots in nineteenth century invariant theory, early twentieth
              century quantum mechanics and mid-twentieth century number theory.  In this
              first decade of the twenty first century the theory has returned to its roots. 
              The nineteenth century invariant theory emphasized concrete questions on binary
              forms with algorithmic solutions. These problems have reemerged and are now
              being generalized to apply to quantum computation.   Early quantum mechanics
              studied puzzling and weird measurements involving photons, electrons etc. These
              phenomena led to the Hilbert space approach to quantum mechanics. The
              philosophical debates of the early quantum mechanics have reemerged as quantum
              information technology.  The Hilbert space approach also gave birth to
              representation theory, which has as one of its main applications in number
              theory. The Langlands program has established a goal for the twenty first
              century to establish a non-commutative class field theory (Wile's proof of
              Fermat's Last Theorem is actually proof of a special case of the
              Tanayama-Shimura conjecture which is a special case of the Langlands program). 
              This project is in the interface of all of these exciting directions.

