              Abstract
Boas/Staube

This project has two main scientific components. The
              first goal is to advance the theory of the inhomogeneous Cauchy-Riemann
              equations on pseudoconvex domains in multidimensional complex space. Although
              global regularity of the d-bar Neumann problem holds on large classes of
              domains, it fails on the so-called worm domains. Currently there is no general
              theory that unifies the known positive results, much less one that also
              accounts for the negative results on the worm domains. Likewise, necessary and
              sufficient conditions for the stronger property of compactness of the d-bar
              Neumann operator are not known. A basic question to be addressed is how to
              unify Catlin's approach to global regularity (via compactness) with the
              investigators' vector field method.  The investigators expect a new sufficient
              condition for global regularity to emerge from this study. They also hope to
              characterize compactness in the d-bar Neumann problem by some condition
              slightly weaker than Catlin's so-called property P.  The second thrust of this
              project is to develop a new area in multi-dimensional complex analysis: namely,
              the study of how the theorems and estimates of the subject depend
              asymptotically on the dimension of the space as the dimension tends to
              infinity.  Two particular problems of interest are the recently developed
              theory about extending Bohr's classical power series theorem to higher
              dimensions and the question of quantifying how zeroes of the Bergman kernel
              function depend on the dimension of the ambient complex space. During this
              project, the investigators will train graduate students, and they will
              supervise a young mathematician at the post-doctoral level (supported through a
              VIGRE grant at Texas A&M University) in his study of the d-bar Neumann problem
              on domains with corners.
The study of analysis in several complex variables is
              motivated both by the centrality of the subject within mathematics and by its
              inherent usefulness. For example, one of the basic laws of nature, causality,
              when transcribed by a mathematical device called the Fourier transform,
              immediately gives rise to analytic functions of several (in this case four)
              variables. The work in this project will impact not only the core areas of
              several complex variables and partial differential equations, but also other
              areas of science. For example, the Cauchy-Riemann equations form a model
              problem for a subject central to physics and engineering; Bohr's classical
              theorem has repercussions in operator theory; and the Bergman kernel function
              provides a concrete model for Berezin's quantization scheme in mathematical
              physics. In addition to advancing the frontiers of knowledge through basic
              research, this project will contribute significantly to the development of
              human resources through the scientific training of highly qualified
              personnel.


