              This award provides funding to initiate a Research Experience for Undergraduates
              (REU) site that will provide a eight-week summer research experience in
              limnology and environmental science for a total of five students.   The REU
              site will be run by Kent State University and will focus on the environmental
              issues in Lake Erie, its tributaries and its coastal wetlands.  The REU program
              is based on the theory that mentoring and networking are the most effective
              methods for recruiting students into a profession and for training young
              researchers. This program will provide students with an in-depth understanding
              of the ecology and limnology of the Great Lakes, particularly Lake Erie. Plans
              for the site include all the essential elements for an excellent REU site. A
              team of faculty mentors will help the students develop research projects on the
              freshwater ecology, microbiology, geology and environmental chemistry of the
              Great Lakes.  Students will participate in a series of lectures focused on
              scientific methods, ethics in science, and an interdisciplinary view of the
              Great Lakes, and they will receive one-on-one mentoring from researchers. They
              will also participate in field trips in the Lake Erie watershed. At the end of
              the program, students will develop a presentation on their research project and
              will be encouraged to present their results at a major scientific conference.
              This program fills an important niche in the continuum of program supported
              under the REU program by the Division of Ocean Sciences. It's focus on the
              ecology and limnology of the Lake Erie is unique. The program will advance the
              awareness of students concerning important environmental issues in the coastal
              regions and watersheds of the Great Lakes. The program also has the potential
              to recruit minority students to the Geosciences.
