              9820102
University of Oklahoma
Anant R. Kukreti

This proposal requests
              support for initiating nine undergraduate students in research in Structural
              Engineering each year for five years.  At least three positions will be filled
              by minorities or women, which will include at least one Native American. 
              Persons with disabilities will be accommodated.  Engaging the REU participants
              in discovery through actual construction, experimental testing, observing and
              recording, synthesizing the data collected and generalizations will provide the
              research experience.  Three laboratory projects have been identified for each
              year in the following areas: the design of improved micro-concrete and
              measurement of the bond strength of model reinforcing bars, manufacture and
              testing of small-scale steel frame connections, and construction and testing of
              a small-scale steel frame fitted with various types of seismic bracing and base
              isolation systems.  The students selected will be divided into three groups,
              and each group will study one project during the two summer months (June and
              July).  All three projects are so chosen to build on previous year's REU
              project, and will improve the capabilities of small-scale models used to
              investigate the seismic performance of structural systems.  Each year the
              groups will produce detailed technical reports and present their findings to a
              panel of judges consisting of three professional civil engineers and two
              professors from visual arts and video media.  The judges will select the "Best
              Project" in both the technical and visual presentation categories.  Upon
              returning to their home institutions, the participants will prepare papers for
              presentation at the student paper competitions and seminars.

