              0110462
Yanofsky

Plant reproductive development has been the subject of
              intensive investigation in recent years, and members of the MADS-box family of
              regulatory genes have been shown to control key aspects of this complex
              process.  The carpels and resulting fruit are arguably the most complex plant
              organs, and the AGAMOUS (AG) clade of MADS-box genes is necessary for carpel
              and fruit development.  There are four closely related genes within this
              monophyletic clade, including AG, SHATTERPROOF1 (SHP1), SHP2 and AGL11.  The AG
              gene, which encodes the C function of the widely-recognized ABC model of flower
              organ identity, is necessary for carpel identity.  The SHP genes act
              redundantly during fruit development to specify differentiation of the
              dehiscence zone, a process that is required for seed dispersal.  Mutant alleles
              for AGL11, the final member of this important clade of genes have been
              isolated.  The initial analyses of agl11 mutants demonstrate that AGL11 is
              required for normal ovule and seed development, and for the normal process of
              seed dispersal.  Moreover, when mutations in AGL11 are combined with mutations
              in both SHP1 and SHP2, ovule development is completely abolished.  These
              studies indicate that AGL11, SHP1 and SHP2 act redundantly to specify ovule
              identity.  With agl11-mutant alleles in hand, the next step is not only to
              define the roles of AGL11 during ovule/carpel/seed/fruit development, but to
              fully dissect the individual and redundant activities of the AG clade of genes.
               These studies should have far-reaching implications for the study of similar
              developmental processes in diverse plant species. Initial studies will focus on
              a detailed description of the agl11 and agl11 shp1 shp2 mutant phenotypes. 
              Unstable  alleles of AG will be made in order to fully explore the individual
              and overlapping activities of AG with the other members of this gene clade. 
              Interactions will be explored between AGL11 and the other AG-clade genes with
              the many known genes involved in ovule and carpel development.  These studies
              will involve the introduction of mutant alleles for these ovule/carpel
              development genes into the agl11 and agl11 shp1 shp2 mutant backgrounds.  In
              parallel with these genetic studies, the  expression of AGL11 RNA will be
              monitored in each of these mutants and we will monitor the expression of each
              of the ovule/carpel development genes in the agl11 and agl11 shp1 shp2
              backgrounds.  Together these studies should provide a conceptual framework for
              understanding the genetic and molecular interactions that underlie
              ovule/carpel/seed/fruit development in Arabidopsis.  
 


