              This is an RUI collaborative research project among three physics programs at
              neighboring state universities: Angelo State University, Tarleton State
              University, and Southwest Texas State Uni-versity. The project focuses on three
              main topics: (1) correlation between electrical and optical properties and
              stress in ZnO and nitrogen-doped ZnO fabricated at reduced temperatures using
              radical atomic beam processing, (2) feasibility of fabricating predicted ZnO-Mn
              and Zn-Co room temperature transparent magnetic semiconductors, and (3)
              dielectric properties of select amor-phous or potentially epitaxial insulator
              oxide alloys consisting of Pr-Al-O, Gd-Ga-O, Hf-Al-O, Pr-Zr-O and La- Hf-O
              (most with possible oxynitridation and alloy-dependent band gap variabil-ity)
              relevant for magnetic spin tunneling structures and next-generation CMOS gate
              applications. A study towards the stabilization and characterization of
              metastable Ni-incorporated Cu-Ge and Co- Ge thin film crystalline phases will
              also be included. Thin film materials fabrication will be conducted using ion
              beam sputter processing strategies. The approach is to implement mono-energetic
              Ar + or Xe + ions (<1 keV) to control incident film adatom energy (between ~ 6
              eV to ~ 20 eV), and vary the substrate angle of incidence to promote kinetic
              film growth at reduced temperatures with and without reflected energetic Ar/Xe
              atom bombardment. Low energy (<100 eV) reactive (O2 + /N2 + ) assist ion beams
              will be compared with neutral thermal atomic radi-cals to promote optimal
              oxidation (and dopant nitridation) at reduced substrate temperatures. The
              implementation of in-situ low energy and/or neutral atomic radical species to
              promote reactive sputtering is relatively unique for ion beam sputtering and is
              not possible with magnetron sput-tering due to its higher operating pressure
              regime. The group also has the capability of processing sputtered films with
              rapid thermal annealing and high-energy (< 1 MeV) inert ion mixing to study
              germanide formation in amorphous deposited metal-Ge films. 
%%% 
The project
              addresses fundamental research issues in a topical area of materials science
              having technological relevance. An important feature of the project is the
              strong emphasis on education, and the integration of research and education.
              Undergraduates from all three universities will be involved in multiple phases
              of the research, with strong participation from underrepresented groups. In
              addition to ion beam sputtering, students will be involved with rapid thermal
              process-ing, electrical transport studies, ion beam analysis, scanning electron
              microscopy with EDS, ad-vanced x-ray diffraction and fluorescence analysis,
              magnetometry, and optical characterization (reflectivity, FTIR,
              photoluminescence). In addition, students will have a chance to
              collabora-tively interact with Central Texas microelectronics industry
              scientists and doctoral institution re-search teams interested in the project.
              All three collaborating universities are close enough to permit an active
              degree of inter-university group visits and student exchanges to support the
              re-search. The research will encourage students to consider pursuing research
              at various materials-related doctoral programs, or consider further education
              in a professional masters program. In addition, the broad thin film materials
              experience gained from the project will be useful prepara-tion for student
              internships in the microelectronics industry and strengthening the workforce
              pool of educated BS/MS graduates for this critical industry.
***  

