              0087181
DeSilva


In attempting to better understand the human, societal,
              and environmental impacts of volcanic eruptions, scientists are increasingly
              aware that the fundamental underpinning to this endeavour is knowledge about
              the physical volcanology of volcanic eruptions. Since plinian eruptions are
              amongst the most devastating, considerable effort is focused on these
              phenomena. However, few such eruptions have been observed and documented and
              our understanding relies heavily on data from eruptions that have occurred in
              the recent past. Such studies have proved to be the source of much of our
              insight into the dynamics of plinian eruptions and their local and global
              effects. A completed study of the 1600 eruption of Huaynaputina, conducted
              under the auspices of a previous NSF grant, reveals that this eruption is one
              of the most significant eruptions of historic times. Over 25km3 of tephra was
              erupted, 90% of which was ejected during a ~20 hour sustained plinian eruption
              during the first stage of the eruption. Two coeval but distinct deposits
              formed; a regionally extensive and well-preserved plinian pumice fall deposit,
              and a much more extensive plinian ash deposit. No caldera collapse occurred
              despite the large volume erupted allowing the rare preservation of
              ultraproximal sections and vents. This project will build on the general model
              of the eruption that we have elucidated to focus on the ultraproximal sections
              and the proximal pumice fall deposit to increase our understanding of the 1600
              Stage I plinian eruption in particular and the dynamics of plinian eruptions in
              general. Two interrelated objectives are to be addressed. The first is better
              constrain the evolution of the ~20 hour long plinian eruption, and the second
              is to better understand the origin and significance of the extremely coarse
              fall deposits in the ultraproximal sections. These objectives will be addressed
              through extensive fieldwork to log sections, identify and map key horizons, and
              map their dispersal. These data will be coupled with existing detailed
              grainsize and componentry of these horizons throughout the fall deposit to
              develop a more detailed understanding of the Stage I plinian eruption that
              breaks down the ~20 hour eruption into several stages. The involvement of
              graduate and undergraduate students as key players in the team maximises the
              educational impact of this project.

