              Peck
EAR-0106890


This proposal details approaches for using the oxygen
              isotope systematics of metaquartzites to: (1) retrieve peak (>800 deg C)
              garnet-quartz fractionations for thermometry and (2) use water-controlled
              retrograde diffusion in rutile and other trace phases as a paleohygrometer. 
              Pure (>90% Qtz) quartzite is the ideal lithology for this study because it
              satisfies the 'infinite reservoir' assumption with respect to modeling oxygen
              diffusion in accessory minerals.  Laser fluorination will allow high-precision
              analysis of equilibrium mineral pairs.  Samples will be selected from
              well-studied localities in the southern Grenville Province with published
              constraints on metamorphic conditions (T, P, cooling rates, and fluids).
The
              thermometry portion of this project will use the slow oxygen diffusion rate in
              garnet (as determined by experimental studies) as a way to 'see-past' multiple
              thermal events in polymetamorphic rocks.  Garnet commonly forms below its
              closure temperature, so it will preserve oxygen isotope ratios from garnet
              formation even through subsequent granulite-facies metamorphism.  Quartzite is
              essentially momomineralic, so closed-system retrogression will not affect
              quartz-garnet fractionations because quartz will have no other minerals with
              which to exchange during cooling.  Samples will be rigorously characterized
              with respect to oxygen isotope ratio, and also with BSE, CL, and conventional
              microscopy to determine if they have behaved as closed systems.  This
              thermometer will be extremely useful in high-grade polymetamorphic terrains
              where more conventional cation thermometers are not applicable.
Experiments
              have shown that oxygen diffusion rates in minerals are a strong function of
              water fugacity.  The proposed research will use published experiments and
              measured oxygen isotope ratios to constrain water fugacities in slowly cooled
              metamorphic rocks.  Intermineral fractionations and isotopic zoning will be
              used, in conjunction with diffusion models, to develop an oxygen isotope
              hygrometer.  Rutile will be a focus of this study because it behaves in the
              opposite manner to other rock-forming minerals with respect to water effects on
              oxygen diffusion rates (in rutile water causes slow oxygen diffusion).  Thus,
              when used with other minerals, rutile provides good leverage for determining
              the interplay between water fugacity and oxygen diffusion rate.  This oxygen
              isotope hygrometer will allow the detection of even chemically unreactive
              fluids which leave no chemical signature but can still flux melting and weaken
              rocks.
The last decade has seen an explosion of experimental work on oxygen
              diffusion rates and equilibrium oxygen isotope fractionation factors, and also
              the modeling of oxygen exchange between minerals during cooling. 
              Unfortunately, few studies have combined these resources with the high
              precision, small sample sizes, and high spatial resolution available from laser
              fluorination to allow genuinely new information to be extracted from rocks. 
              High-temperature thermometry and hygrometry are important avenues of timely
              research which will provide new tools for understanding deep-crustal
              processes.

