              This Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) project,
              supported in the Analytical and Surface Chemistry Program and the Office of
              Multidisciplinary Activities, combines the demonstrated intellectual and
              physical resources at the IBM Almaden Research Center (IBM/ARC) and San Jose
              State University (SJSU), a primarily undergraduate institution.  Professors
              Joseph Pesek and Maureen Scharberg head the SJSU effort and Dr. Charles Wade
              coordinates the IBM/ARC effort.  Together, these two institutions will offer
              undergraduate students and high school teachers/small college faculty research
              projects in many areas of analytical chemistry, interfacial science, and
              materials science. This academic-industrial research and education program
              builds on two previous NSF grants, CHE-9300131 and CHE-9625628.  .  

In this
              project, both year-round and summer programs are offered:  For undergraduates,
              there are six positions year-round and twenty ten-week summer appointments. 
              There are four summer positions for high school teachers and two summer
              positions for visiting small college faculty.  Mentors come from the 22
              chemistry faculty at SJSU and among the 240 scientists at IBM/ARC.  Students
              work in the areas of polymer chemistry, materials characterization,
              lithography, semiconductor packaging, magnetism, computational chemistry, and
              surface chemistry.  Each of the participants will spend time working in
              laboratories at both SJSU and IBM/ARC, giving them a broad understanding of
              both academic and industrial research opportunities and procedures. The
              assessment and evaluation of the project is evolving.  Exit surveys have
              already been performed, and now long term tracking protocols are being
              developed.

