              Beltz
0091092

The primary goals of these studies are to understand how
              serotonin, nitric oxide and life-long neurogenesis contribute to the
              development and maintenance of the olfactory pathway, using in vivo and in
              vitro methods.  The lobster Homarus americanus is used as the experimental
              system because of the presence of giant serotonergic neurons that innervate the
              olfactory areas from early embryonic development, and because neurogenesis in
              the olfactory pathway persists throughout the animal's life. Prior studies have
              shown that serotonin influences the proliferation of newborn olfactory
              interneurons and promotes the branching of olfactory projection neurons.
              Additionally, newborn projection neurons transiently take up serotonin within
              the first few hours after their birth. There are 4 specific aims of our current
              studies:  1. The functions that are mediated by the transient serotonin uptake
              into newborn olfactory projection neurons will be defined using pharmacological
              agents that block the serotonin transporter, while testing for effects on
              proliferation and outgrowth of the olfactory interneurons.  2. Preliminary
              studies in the lobster suggest that nitric oxide (NO) also may be important in
              the development and maintenance of the olfactory pathway.  The NO system will
              be defined by examining the temporal and spatial regulation of NOS in the brain
              using immunocytochemical methods.  Further, NO levels will be altered
              experimentally in order to test for effects on the rate of neurogenesis among
              olfactory interneurons.  3. An  in vitro system  will be established to test
              hypotheses emerging from our in vivo studies.  The goal of this effort is to
              successfully culture olfactory interneurons in order to perform three major
              experiments: to co-culture olfactory projection neurons with the serotonergic
              dorsal giant neuron, to introduce serotonin into cultures of projection neurons
              in order to visualize effects on branching, and to have the potential to
              directly manipulate the NO/cGMP pathway and observe whether cultured projection
              neurons are NO sensitive.  4.  One test for our hypotheses regarding the
              importance of neurogenesis in the development and maintenance of olfactory
              centers, is to look at these issues in crustacean species that have determinate
              growth and a defined lifespan.  We will therefore ask whether there is
              persistent proliferation in the olfactory areas of these species before, and
              then after, a terminal molt.  

These studies are relevant to developmental
              mechanisms in higher organisms because there are many parallels between the
              organization of olfactory pathways and processing even in phylogenetically
              distant species.  In addition, these studies are exploring basic mechanisms
              involved in the development and maintenance of neural circuits, which may be
              applicable in a spectrum of other systems.

