              Enzymes exposed to novel thermal environments undergo selection to maintain
              functional parameters, such as catalytic rate and substrate affinity, at
              physiologically appropriate levels.  The amount of structural modification
              necessary to produce these compensatory functional changes is unclear, but it
              has been hypothesized that temperature adaptation in enzymes takes place via
              changes in flexibility in or near structures that move during catalysis.  The
              objective of the research is to test this hypothesis, focusing on the following
              questions:  As the thermal environment changes, how much structural
              modification is necessary to maintain optimal enzyme function?  Do orthologous
              enzymes from different species adapted to the same thermal environment show
              similar changes in catalytic function, and in underlying structure?  Do
              unrelated enzymes show analogous changes in structure in response to
              temperature change  - specifically, do temperature-adaptive changes occur in
              areas associated with movement during catalysis?  To answer these questions,
              three glycolytic enzymes will be examined - muscle-type lactate dehydrogenase,
              pyruvate kinase and aldolase - from two unrelated groups of marine fishes
              adapted to extreme cold - the Antarctic notothenioids and the Arctic and Polar
              cods.  The project will be divided into four segments:  First, for each
              ortholog, the kinetic parameters kcat (catalytic rate) and Km (substrate
              affinity) will be determined across a range of temperatures.  Second, the
              primary structure of each enzyme will be deduced from complementary DNA
              sequences.  Third, computer models of the three-dimensional structures of each
              of the polar orthologs will be created, in order to determine which amino acid
              substitutions shared by the polar enzyme orthologs are most likely to affect
              enzyme function in a temperature-adaptive manner.  Fourth, representative polar
              orthologs will be modified through site-directed mutagenesis to confirm the
              role of those residues important in cold adaptation.  Km and kcat values of the
              mutants will be determined to test the hypothesis that temperature-adaptive
              structural changes occur in areas undergoing catalytically important
              conformational changes. 

Organisms adapt to long-term changes in temperature
              at a variety of levels, from alterations in body shape and size to
              modifications in the functioning of biochemical pathways.  This project is
              designed to determine how changes in the structure of enzymes - proteins that
              act as catalysts in biochemical processes - lead to optimal enzyme function at
              extremely cold temperatures.  Common metabolic enzymes from Antarctic and
              Arctic fishes will be compared to discover whether the same types of functional
              adaptation have occurred in these unrelated species. An important goal of this
              research is to find those amino acid substitutions (changes in the basic
              building blocks of the proteins) responsible for cold adaptation, and to
              determine whether similar substitutions have occurred in the enzymes of the
              different fish species.  The research will help clarify the rate and extent of
              molecular evolution as organisms adapt to novel environments.

