              This Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase I project addresses the
              construction of a cross-lingual retrieval system based on deep linguistic
              analysis intended to deliver efficiencies and cost savings and reduce
              communication barriers worldwide.  By 2003, 70 percent of the estimated 1.3
              billion users of the Internet will be non-English speaking.  Thus the need to
              enable automated, reliable accessibility to information in more than one
              language is clear.  Most existing information retrieval systems are either
              monolingual or cross-language with limited success and no translation
              capabilities.  The investigator's Cross-Language Information Retrieval System
              (CLIR) will produce significant performance increases in the recall and
              precision of a cross-language sear.  The investigative team will encapsulate
              cutting edge natural language processing (NLP) technology developed on a
              consistent theoretical foundation into a modular and scalable
              application-programming interface. The system will incorporate an extraction
              component for the matching of relevant lexemes based on their syntactic
              context, and a probabilistic module, which will disambiguate multiple
              interpretation based on expectation.  The firm has secured an exclusive license
              from Russian Academy of Sciences for the use of complex NLP algorithms that
              will be integrated into the CLIR technology, creating a state-of-the-art
              linguistic kernel.

Universal Dialog proffered technology will provide any
              person, business, organization or government, as well as any software that
              integrates their Cross-Language Information Retrieval, a faster, less costly
              solution for the retrieval of multilingual information, with a higher degree of
              precision, recall and scalability that CLIR methods currently available.  The
              firm plans to integrate the technology to be developed in this project into its
              Cross-Language Communication Platform (CLCP).  CLCP will enable users to
              retrieve, summarize, and fully translate retrieved data.

