              This SBIR Phase II project is aimed at developing a novel vibration mixer for
              the mixing of surgical grade bone cement.  Self-curing polymethylmethacrylate
              (PMMA) or acrylic bone cement is used extensively in total joint replacements,
              in the repair of bony defects and in the fixation of pathological fractures. 
              For surgical use, the methylmethacrylate polymer and the liquid monomer are
              hand mixed.  This hand-mixing entraps air bubbles making the cement porous. 
              Presence of these bubbles adversely affects the mechanical properties of bone
              cement, making it much weaker under load and may contribute to early failure of
              cemented artificial joints.  Results of the Phase I study indicate that
              ultrasonic vibration during cement mixing
significantly reduced its porosity
              and increased the fatigue life and mechanical strength of bone cement, compared
              to hand-mixed cement.  Recently, it was  shown that combining sonication and
              vacuum mixing reduced the porosity and further improved the fatigue life,
              compared to either mixing methods alone.

During the Phase II study,  the
              frequency and amplitude of sonication and the vacuum pressure to obtain the
              best mechanical properties of the cement will be optimized.  Subsequently, a
              new cement mixer will be designed and built incorporating these mixing
              features.  It is expected that the improved mechanical properties of vibrated
              bone cement will reduce the incidence of cement fracture and this will improve
              the success rate of total joint replacements.  Considering that cement mixers
              are used in several thousand hospitals in the United States alone, we expect
              this new cement mixer to be adopted by a large number of Orthopaedic surgeons
              in these hospitals.

