              In the past decade the world has seen an explosion in Internet activity and with
              it has come increased expectations for its performance.  Internet users now
              demand faster and higher-quality service for applications ranging from
              audio/video-on-demand to Internet telephony.  At the heart of these information
              exchanges is the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and active queue
              management (AQM) schemes which work together with the goal of preventing
              network congestion and improving end-to-end performance.  However, it is
              becoming increasingly evident that the present form of these schemes may not be
              able to cope with the growing demands on the Internet.  It is well documented
              that congestion-avoidance schemes relying on Drop-Tail routers are prone to
              high-loss rates while AQM routers deploying random early detection (RED) are
              difficult to tune.

Motivated by this situation, this proposal is concerned
              with the design of advanced AQM schemes.  This projects approach departs from
              the prevailing techniques by explicitly relying on dynamic network models and
              feedback control principles.  Central to the approach is the recognition that
              AQM schemes are feedback control systems and that feedback control principles
              provide essential tools for the analysis and design of AQM strategies.  The
              absence of feedback control principles from the design scene so far is
              apparently due to a lack of an analytical model of TCP.  Fortunately, this
              roadblock has been recently removed by one of the PIs through the introduction
              of a fluid-flow model that expresses TCP in a language that allows network
              control engineers to analyze and design AQM schemes.  Indeed, in several recent
              papers the PIs have accomplished just that by: 1) relating key network
              parameters to the performance of AQM networks, 2) analyzing RED and suggesting
              parameter settings for stable queue management, and 3) introducing a new AQM
              scheme, the PI controller, that compares favorably with RED.

The proposed
              research builds on these recent results and has two objectives.  First, to
              study the interaction of heterogeneous fluid-flows with AQM routers and
              secondly, to investigate the scalability of PI controllers.  The first
              objective is aimed at the recently developed TCP/AQM movel which assumes only
              long-lived flows and ignores short-lived flows.  This research will develop
              models of heterogeneous flows and explore their impact on the AQM analysis and
              design.  In the second objective the PI controller is considered which was
              originally designed and analyzed for a TCP connection encountering only a
              single bottleneck router.  The scalability for the PI controller will be
              explored where complex network topologies, consisting of many routers each
              under local PI control, will be considered.  Unlike the development of the
              original PI controller, this research will necessarily use, multivariable
              feedback control techniques to establish network stability, performance and
              robustness to network parameter variations.

