              

0110903
Yu
This is a SGER award to support theoretical research and
              education in the area of bioinfomatics using methods inspired by statistical
              mechanics that differ from ones currently used in computational biology.   The
              research centers on sequence alignment and clustering. An important problem in
              this area is how to assign an accurate statistical  significance to a result
              obtained from these bioinfomatics tools. A novel alignment method and
              statistical theory recently developed by the PI will be enhanced to create a
              more complete statistical theory and to address the statistical significance
              problem. An aim of this work is to develop a better method to extract
              appropriate alignment parameters where insertions, deletions, and substitutions
              of biomonomers will be treated on an equal footing.  Another focus of this work
              is to improve clustering methods using variants of the random-cluster model. 
              The PI's new clustering method assumes no a priori knowledge of the nature of
              the existing data and is expected to be more robust against noisy
              data.
%%%
This SGER award supports theoretical research and graduate level
              education in the area of bioinformatics.  The research is interdisciplinary
              with a view to bring the formidable tools of statistical physics to bear on an
              important part of the larger biological problem of understanding the meaning of
              the enormous amount of genome data that has been collected.  The PI's research
              addresses the problem of being able to reliably identify homology among
              different sequences and to improve clustering tools that can be used to  help
              identify gene expression patterns associated with a certain biological process
              or disease. 
***

