              The project explores a nonlinear IV approach to inference in general
              nonstationary panels with unit roots.  The approach relies on the standard IV
              methods with instruments  constructed from nonlinear transformations of
              integrated processes. Though the  methodology is very simple to implement, it
              provides extremely effective tools for testing  unit roots in panels. Our tests
              for unit roots in panels are simply based on individual  nonlinear IV t-ratios,
              which are nothing but the usual t-ratios based on the IV estimators  using as
              instruments the integrable transformations of lagged levels.

 Such nonlinear
              IV based tests have many desirable properties and can be used for very  general
              models. The test statistics have Gaussian limit distributions at each cross- 
              sectional level, and more importantly, they are asymptotically independent
              across different cross-sectional units. The asymptotic Gaussianity and
              independence indeed hold under very mild conditions that allow for
              cross-sectional dependency and heterogeneity.  In contrast, virtually all of
              the related work done previously assumes either cross- sectional independence
              or specific forms of dependency across individual units. Needless to say, the
              assumption of cross-sectional independence is highly unrealistic for many 
              economic panels of interest. Any presumption on the form of cross-sectional
              dependency  may also severely restrict the applicability of the tests. Our
              asymptotics only require the time dimension to be large, so the tests are valid
              for panels with both large and small cross-sectional dimensions.  

The
              proposed tests for unit roots allow not only for the cross-sectional
              dependencies of  nnovations, but also for the presence of cointegration across
              cross-sectional units in levels. Unbalanced panels and panels with
              heterogeneous individual shortrun dynamics and cross-sectionally related
              dynamics are also permitted. The proposed tests also make it possible to more
              carefully formulate the unit root and cointegration hypotheses in panels,  and
              use order statistics to test for and against the presence of unit roots and
              cointegration
in only a fraction of individual units. None of the currently
              available tests can be used to test for unit roots in such general panels. Some
              preliminary simulations indicate that our nonlinear IV based tests perform very
              well in finite samples even for panels with relatively small time and
              cross-sectional dimensions.

