              It is proposed to explore semiconductor nanocrystals such as quantum dots, rods
              and tetrapods, as templates for self-assembled 3D architectures of  themselves
              and of  core-shell nanocomposites . Multiscale simulations will be performed on
              Cd-S, Cd-Se, Zn-S, Ga-As, and In-As and their core shell nanocomposites. The
              relevant dimensional range in most cases will extend from the nanometer to the
              continuum, or part of it. They will be accomplished by a seamless combination
              of finite  element   continuum  theories, molecular dynamics, and quantum
              mechanical calculations.  Successful   three-dimensional accounts of  the
              resulting space distribution of atoms will yield a number of  property and
              structural changes, at both bulk and atomistic levels. Among others, they will
              bring out the effects of nanocrystal size and shape, of organic molecules
              surface termination, and of nanoindentation testing on tetrapods and their
              arrays. 
     The multimillion-atom multiscale simulation will be displayed
              and steered in an immersive and interactive visualization program, its
              infrastructure being made available by  the State of Louisiana . The three PIs
              have already accumulated an extensive practice with molecular dynamics
              applications (~10 million atoms). In addition, the they have initiated a close
              cooperative collaboration with  Dr. Alivisatos' experimental program at the
              University of California- Berkeley. There are also plans to offer a number of
              cross disciplinary courses, leading to a dual-degree program (
              physical/biological and computer sciences), to web-based global courses and to
              mentoring activities.
     In summary, the PIs have accumulated an extensive
              experience in the field of parallel multiscale simulation, and have proceeded
              to obtain access to the corresponding high performance hardware and software.
              This should give them now a chance to test the behavior of a number of
              semiconductors, in a more diversified range of circumstances. To explore such a
              promising possibility, it is recommended that a one-year SCER award of  $94,962
              be granted, with a starting date of  September 1, 2001.

