              To calculate the elastic deformation experienced by soils subjected to static or
              dynamic loads, knowledge of the elastic moduli is required. Although the
              response of soils to these kinds of loads may not be strictly represented as
              linear elastic, solutions based on linear elastic behavior are commonly used
              for the estimation of stresses or strains in the field. The elastic moduli are
              normally evaluated in the laboratory using conventional triaxial compressive
              tests on cylindrical samples. For meaningful test results, it is necessary to
              maintain a ratio of sample diameter to the maximum particle size of
              approximately 6:1 or greater.  For the conventional triaxial specimen diameter
              of 2.8 in., the maximum grain size that can be tested is 0.5 in. Thus, when
              soils are tested in the conventional triaxial apparatus, it is common practice
              to remove "oversize" particles with an average diameter greater than 0.5 in.
              Samples larger than 2.8 in. can be used in triaxial testing; however this
              requires the use of large cells and large loading systems, making the tests too
              expensive and time consuming to be used routinely.
     The removal of
              material larger than 0.5 in. from the samples tested in the conventional
              triaxial apparatus will provide unreliable elastic moduli values for the
              calculation of stresses and deformations associated with civil engineering
              projects built in soils with large rock particles (i.e. glacial tills, residual
              and colluvial soils). This proposal presents a theoretical method developed by
              Hashin that calculates the elastic moduli of a composite made of an elastic
              material containing dispersed large rigid particles. The Hashin method requires
              only knowledge of the elastic moduli of the matrix that surrounds the particles
              coupled with the concentration by volume of the rigid large particles in the
              composite in order to calculate the elastic moduli of the mixture.  
     The
              objective of this one year exploratory investigation is to assess the validity
              of the Hashin method by conducting ultrasonic velocity tests on dry mixtures of
              soils (clay, silt, and sand) and dispersed oversize particles (gravel, glass
              beads, sands). Also, stress-strain curves reported in the geotechnical
              literature obtained from conventional static triaxial compression tests on
              laboratory prepared soils-large particles mixtures will be used to obtain the
              static elastic moduli.  Using the ultrasonic velocity measurements, the
              laboratory dynamic elastic moduli will be  obtained. Using the results from
              triaxial compression tests, the static elastic moduli will be obtained. The
              laboratory elastic moduli will be then compared with those predicted by 
              Hashin's  theoretical method in order to assess its reliability.
     The
              results of the exploratory research will be used as a basis to further explore
              the validity of Hashin's method as it applies to soil-oversize particle
              mixtures having a soil matrix with varying degrees of saturation and
              heterogeneity.
 




                                                   
              


