              
A grant has been awarded to Dr. Richard L. Mayden at Saint Louis University to
              conduct field and laboratory research in collaboration with other USA
              scientists and several scientists from Mexico on the environmental status,
              distribution, conservation and genetics of native trout populations of Mexico.
              While biologists have been aware of the existence of native trout in Mexico for
              over a century, they have received little study. Beginning in the mid-1990's a
              group of ichthyologists and conservation biologists from both Mexico and USA
              jointly formed an international alliance, Truchas Mexicanas, to better
              understand the native trout of the Sierra Madre Occidental.  Through these
              efforts, scientists have discovered previously unknown trout species restricted
              to Mexico and introduced (non-native) populations of rainbow trout.  The
              existence of these non-native rainbow trout originating from streams in the US
              and Canada in the ranges of the unique Mexican trout species is a significant
              threat to the future existence of native species.  Rainbow trout are known to
              displace native trout species through competition or genetically "swamp out"
              their gene pools through aggressive hybridization.  Other native populations of
              trout are also predicted to occur in the upper Rio Conchos; these populations
              are predicted to also be in danger from habitat destruction and introductions
              of rainbow trout.  In this study we will inventory many river systems of the
              sierras for native and introduced trout species, including the upper Conchos
              River system.  Genetic samples will be examined from all of these populations
              to evaluate genetic variability of native species and determine if any native
              populations are compromised genetically through hybridization with introduced
              rainbow trout. 
	This research supports the development of an international
              alliance investigating native trout populations of Mexico and southwestern
              United States.  Trout species are important game and forage species for human
              populations, constituting a major element of diets in some regions.  Trout
              fisheries are also very important economic elements to some regions as trout
              are highly prized sport fish species.  Understanding native trout species
              diversity in Mexico and its conservation and maintenance in these streams has a
              major impact on both fisheries and economic areas.  Mexican trout species are
              the southern-most trout and are adapted to theses unique ecosystems. 
              Introductions of non-native rainbow trouts will seriously jeopardize these
              adapted populations and lead to their extirpation from the region.  This will
              have serious sociological and economic impacts for the native people of the
              region.



