                   The objectives of this Small Grant for Exploratory Research (SGER) are to:
              1) Create general probability models for key quality characteristics of a
              subset of the taxonomy of manufacturing processes.  The selected taxonomy will
              specify the following classifications (a) the type of Geometric dimensioning
              and tolerancing (GD&T) requirements for form and location. (b) the type of
              manufacturing process and product material;  and (c) the type of inspection
              device. The models will be chosen based on their accuracy and generality in
              representing the realistic behavior of process outputs; and 2) For each of the
              general probability models, define an appropriate summary statistic that
              incorporates the engineering requirements and the random nature of the process
              behavior.  Having studied the output from various materials, processes
              measurement devices, complex GD&T acceptance zones, and normal/non-normal
              univariate/multivariate distributions in the first part of this research, we
              plan to define a set of statistics useful for summarizing performance and
              setting goals.  Summary statistics will be chosen based on their distributional
              properties and will be used to define sample size requirements and critical
              acceptance values useful for supporting vendor relations and setting process
              performance goals.
     The results of this research will constitute a
              complete methodology for capturing and summarizing the behavior of inspection
              data (i.e.. probability' models).  Data sets provided by industrial partners
              (Intel. Motorola. and Simula Safety Systems) will provide the modeling
              environment and validation of research. The project's deliverable will be a
              published catalogue of probability models that can be directly mapped to form
              and location GD&T requirements, manufacturing processes, materials and
              measurement systems for a subset of entries in the manufacturing taxonomy. 
              Should this research prove successful. a follow-on project  will be prepared
              for more categories in the taxonomy. In total,  this research project is
              expected to have usable models for industrial decision-making, planning,  and
              analysis as well as the theoretical contributions in performance summary
              statistics.
