              Microbial Degradation of Animal Chemosignals

Project Summary

	The arms
              race between predator and prey has been played out endless times in
              evolutionary history, and so adaptations for predator defense are ubiquitous in
              animals.  Defense against microorganisms is at least as important as defense
              against predatory macro-organisms, for the threat imposed can be much more
              insidious. Microbes up to a trillion per gram of soil compete intensively for
              the energy in the chemical secretions, excretions and bodily structures of
              macro-organisms, and so it is surprising that little if anything is know about
              whether microbes 
feed on those chemical signals that organisms release into
              the environment to coordinate or influence important activities ranging from
              predator defense to reproduction. Until now, evaporation and diffusion were
              thought to be the eventual fates of chemical signals, not microbial
              consumption. If microbes have this impact, the signaling organisms must
              compensate production to offset the anticipated loss to microbes, and so the
              costs of producing a chemical signal will always be higher than predicted based
              on loss due to evaporation and diffusion.  Models that attempt to correlate
              chemical design with behavior will have to be revised if microbes routinely
              degrade the chemical signals of higher organisms.

	The red-backed
              salamander, Plethodon cinereus, is the most common terrestrial vertebrate in
              the northeastern United States, but it also is fast becoming a model species
              for chemical signal production spanning predator defense, territorial defense,
              and courtship behavior. P. cinereus can chemically label and avoid the scent
              trails of garter snake predators that feed on salamanders. P. cinereus also
              scent marks and defends feeding territories, and the males produce scent to
              attract mates. All these chemical signals are energy-containing molecules that
              microbes can potentially utilize, and so microbes could have a considerable
              energetic impact on salamanders attempting to survive predation, defend
              resources, or influence reproduction through the production of chemical
              signals.

	The investigators will use ultraviolet sterilization and
              microfiltration techniques in both the laboratory and field to test whether the
              presence or relative absence of microbial communities have consequences for the
              duration of the chemical signal produced by P. cinereus to label and avoid
              garter snake predators. Microbial impacts on territorial and courtship
              chemosignals may also be examined if time permits. The demonstration of
              microbial impacts on chemical signals will be immediately relevant to many
              issues relating to signal production and duration in chemical ecology, and
              especially to a better understanding of the diverse ways microorganisms may
              impact broad categories of behavior among higher organisms. 

	This research
              will be undertaken with a strong emphasis on mentoring and interdisciplinary
              problem solving that have resulted in high levels of productivity and numerous
              awards among undergraduates and graduates working on the research team. This
              process has resulted in student-driven linkages with industry and the medical
              community that have made the research not only more informative but more
              broadly relevant to societal needs.  One outcome of this mentoring and
              interdisciplinary thinking is the idea developed for study in this proposal. 
              

