              Actin is one of the key cytoskeletal elements in eukaryotic cells.  Actin
              protein molecules (monomers) reversibly polymerize to form actin
              microfilaments, which can further assemble into bundles with the assistance of
              actin-associated bundling proteins.  Microfilaments are dynamic in the living
              cell, and can shorten and elongate in a manner that is strictly regulated by a
              variety of other actin-associated proteins.  Microfilaments serve many critical
              roles in the life of the cell, either as structural elements for cell shape or
              resiliency or as tracks along which the actin-based motor, myosin,
              translocates.  This research is aimed at understanding how actin bundles are
              formed and maintained using the Drosophila bristle cell as a model.
              Cross-linked bundles of unipolar (parallel) actin filaments are common in
              eukaryotic cells and provide the scaffolding that maintains cell shape.
              Familiar examples include the brush border (microvilli) of intestinal
              epithelial cells and the stereocilia of the inner ear. In these and other
              systems there is an array of actin-binding proteins that serve to control the
              dynamics of actin polymerization, assemble actin filaments into bundles, and
              regulate bundle maintenance.

The Drosophila bristle cell develops a gigantic
              cellular extension hundreds of microns long over a period of 16 hours and is an
              excellent example of how a cell uses its cytoskeleton to change and maintain
              its shape. This cellular extension is supported by a scaffold of long actin
              bundles constructed by the end-to-end assembly of short modules composed of
              actin filaments bundled together with cross-linkers. This system offers
              important experimental advantages for the study of actin dynamics, by allowing
              the application of genetic and molecular approaches to a fundamental cell
              biological feature that can be analyzed in the living cell by light microscopy
              and at high resolution by electron microscopy.

Drs. Guild and Tilney plan to
              determine how the modular components of actin bundles are formed, maintained,
              and eventually removed from the cytoplasm. They plan to use elongating bristle
              cells as in vivo test tubes and to employ genetic and transgenic tools to
              perturb and modify bundle assembly. The cytoskeletal consequences of these
              changes will be assessed by examining the actin cytoskeleton in the context of
              living cells by confocal microscopy and by examining the detailed structure of
              the cytoskeleton by electron microscopy. The project has two aims. First, the
              investigators will determine whether actin-capping proteins play a role in
              module length regulation and, if so, they will test whether they can engineer
              module length with different capping proteins. Second, they will determine how
              modules break down and whether actin capping proteins play a role in this
              process. In addition, they will test whether retrograde flow of actin modules
              plays a role in cell extension and in bundle breakdown and whether myosin
              motors drive this flow.  Modules of actin bundles are used in many specialized
              cells to support cellular extensions and in all cases module length is an
              issue. Thus, the principles that are uncovered in the Drosophila system should
              be generally applicable to many other systems.

