              The proposed research aims to develop a deeper understanding of two powerful
              synthetic methods.  First, a Modified Aerogel Process (MAP) will be challenged.
               Remarkable solvent effects that have been encountered will be scientifically
              assessed.  Equilibria set up during the hydrolysis step will be probed by
              changes in the Lewis acidity of metal ions employed (e.g. magnesium (2+) vs
              zinc 2+)).  Changes in dehydration procedures (vacuum vs gas flow) will also be
              assessed.  In this work zinc oxide (ZnO), zirconium dioxide (ZrO2), magnesium
              oxide (MgO), and calcium oxide (CaO) will serve as models.  In a second phase
              of this work, adsorption behavior of different crystal shapes will be assessed
              with carefully worked out standardized procedures.  The effect of crystal shape
              on nanocrystal consolidation will also be studied.  A second synthetic
              approach, Solvated Metal Atom/Molecule Dispersion (vapor deposition into cold
              solvents followed by controlled aggregation) will be analyzed.  In this work
              nanocrystals of selected sulfides, selenides, and halides will be studied (zinc
              sulfide (ZnS), cadmium sulfide (CdS_, cadmium selinide (CdSe), lead sulfide
              (PbS), lithium fluoride (LiF), magnesium fluoride (MgF2), magnesium chloride
              (MgCl2), and tin sulfide (SnS).  The underlying theme will be to develop
              understanding and predictability for these powerful synthetic methods that are
              scalable.  In addition, the broad array to techniques, opportunities for
              creative input and opportunities for presentation of results will allow
              excellent training for students in laboratory setting that has always accepted
              and encouraged a highly diverse mixture of me and women.

Evidence is
              accumulating that common mineral-like substances, when produced in very small
              crystalline form (nanocrystals), have very different shapes compared to larger
              crystals.  This difference has profound effects on the ability of these fine
              powdery substances to adsorb toxic chemicals.  In fact, nanocrystals have been
              shown to be extremely good at adsorbing and detoxifying many air pollutants
              toxic industrial chemicals, chemical warfare agents, and bacteria.  However,
              the methods to produce these useful nanocrystals are mostly "alchemical" in
              nature.  Better understanding is needed in order to probe two important
              synthetic methods by studying different solvents, temperatures, concentrations
              of reagents, and other key features.  The underlying theme of the work will be
              to develop scientific understanding and predictability for scalable production
              of these interesting and useful nanocrystalline materials.  In addition, the
              broad array of scientific techniques to be employed, opportunities for creative
              input, and opportunities for presentation of scientific findings will allow
              excellent training of students in a laboratory setting that has always
              encouraged a highly diverse mixture of men and women.

