              The study of Cajun French in Louisiana sponsored by NSF (SBR-9514831) has
              revealed a central fact about French-speaking communities: language shift has
              been taking place rather dramatically over the last three generations. These
              communities have moved from monolingual French to bilingual French-English and
              are now moving rapidly to monolingual English. Situations of shift offer a
              unique opportunity to study language change in progress. The Louisiana French
              communities are interesting for two reasons: 1) shift to English began when
              both French and English were heavily stigmatized but the attitudes towards
              things French changed to positive during the course of the shift and 2) the
              social differences between Cajuns (white) and Creoles (African-Americans) leads
              language change and linguistic identity along separate paths. 

The
              sociolinguistic effect of language shift has been the development of two
              ethnolects (Cajun English and Louisiana African American Creole English), i.e.,
              varieties of a language in which the expression of ethnic identity is
              maintained in an adopted language after loss of the ethnic language.
              Preliminary analysis of Cajun English has revealed four change processes in the
              development of selected sociolinguistic variants in the ethnolect: the
              origination of the variant in the accented English of the oldest generation;
              the adoption of local regional variants of English by the middle generation,
              the recycling of the accented English by the young and/or the persistence of
              particular features over two or more contiguous generations. The
              sociolinguistic patterns associated with these processes are complex and
              intimately tied to the sociohistory of these communities. 

The Cajun and
              Louisiana African American Creole French communities of southern Louisiana
              provide a unique opportunity for a comparative sociolinguistic study of the
              process of language shift. There are many points of comparison between the
              Cajun and Creole communities: they are from the same locale (Southern
              Louisiana), have the same languages interacting during the same historical
              period; many commonalities in their sociohistory (long term occupation of the
              land; oppression by English-speaking whites; both are stigmatized social
              groups; both have a recent history of linguistic integration under government
              pressure (no French in schools) followed by belated attempts to encourage the
              use of French, largely for tourism/economic reasons.) The major difference
              between the two groups is race; the developing ethnolects - Cajun and Louisiana
              African American Creole English - will help to sort out the problem of the
              linguistic origins of ethnolectal variants (in the accented variety of second
              language learners or adoptions from the same or different regional variants). 
              

The social setting of the Cajun and Creole communities which has led to the
              development of English dialects will be compared through the examination of
              their recent sociohistory in order to identify the similarities and differences
              in the social forces guiding language change and dialect development. The
              overall goal of the study is to construct a model of the development of
              ethnolects which takes account of geographical location, ethnic/racial
              identities, sociohistory and linguistics and to compare this model with the
              current understanding of language change in progress. 
