              With National Science Foundation support, Dr. Erik Thomas will conduct two years
              of linguistic research on the phonetic cues that differentiate African American
              and European American English. The project has two components, one examining
              differences in the production of African American and European American speech
              and the other examining differences in their perception - i.e., how listeners
              distinguish the two. Past research on African American English has focused
              largely on grammatical variants (such as copula deletion: "He happy"; and
              habitual BE: "He be working"), and consonantal variants (such as R-lessness: 
              HEAH for HERE; and consonant cluster simplification: PAS for PAST). Research on
              vocalic and intonational variation in African American English has been scarce,
              and research on variation in rhythm and voice quality even rarer. This project
              will examine these lesser-known variables. The production component will
              include acoustic analyses of recordings of African Americans and European
              Americans from the same communities in North Carolina, examining vowel,
              intonational, rhythm, and voice quality variables. The perception component
              will include a series of speech identification experiments in which the effects
              on ethnic identification of the variables investigated in the production
              component are compared.

It is important to study variables involving vowels,
              intonation, rhythm, and voice quality because they are the factors that give
              speakers accents and thus are critical for African American and European
              American identity. These variables are likely to appear in running speech
              before the better-studied grammatical variables and usually before the
              consonantal variables. Unlike those variables, variables involving vowels,
              intonation, rhythm, and voice quality seem to persist in standard African
              American speech. African Americans can use them to project their ethnic
              identity even in situations in which they have to avoid the more stigmatized
              grammatical and consonantal variants. In situations such as telephone
              conversations and radio broadcasts, listeners can distinguish a speaker's
              ethnicity using these variables. This ability is involved in both racial
              profiling and discrimination. More information about these variables, including
              their distribution within the two ethnic groups and how they are used by
              listeners, can provide insights as to how racial profiling occurs. This
              information could be useful in legal cases.


