              The primary goal of the proposed new work is the application of solid-state NMR
              to the characterization of three types of polymeric nanostructures: (1)
              hyperbranched polycarbonates, (2) dendritic poly(benzyl ether)s, and (3)
              cross-linked amphiphiles of nanoscale dimensions with a core-shell morphology. 
              The principal technique to be used to solve all three problems will be
              stable-isotope labeling with rotational-echo double-resonance (REDOR)
              detection.  This strategy involves two or more stable-isotope labels ( or
              sometimes one label and C-13 at natural abundance) that are incorporated in or
              near the region of interest, which might be an interface, or a core or surface
              site of the nanoparticle.  REDOR then detects the dipolar coupling between
              heteronuclear pairs of spins.  The coupling is directly related to an inferred
              if the averaging effects of motion are absent or suppressed.  The first
              research goal is to use C-13/H-2 REDOR to compare the chain packing in linear
              phenol-polycarbonate with that in hyperbranched polycarbonate of identical
              chemical composition.  Preliminary results indicate a considerable degree of
              local order in the chain packing of the linear system.  REDOR will establish
              the extent to which this order persists in the presence of 50% branching.  The
              second research goal is to use C-13/F-19 REDOR to establish the packing of
              chain ends within the internal architecture of a dendrimer, and to determine
              the extent of interpenetration of chain ends between dendrimers.  The
              stable-isotope labeled dendrimers will be imbedded within a matrix composed
              either of other dendrimers or of polystyrene, the latter to form a blend
              interface.  The third research goal is to use C-12, N-15, H-2 and F-19 labels
              in various combinations for the core, interface, and shell of amphiphilic
              core-shell nanostructures so that multi-frequency REDOR can identify
              proximities at interfacial, cross-link, and surface sites.  These proximities
              will be used to generate structural models that help interpret chemical,
              biochemical, and mechanical properties, and to suggest strategies for the
              synthesis of more effective materials.
%%%
Dendrimers and hyperbranched
              polymers are valued for their low melt viscosity, high solubility, and the
              possibility of many surface-active functional groups.  They can be used as
              encapsulants, ultra-thin film coatings, and as nanoscale filler particles in
              polymeric composites.  Individual molecules form discrete nanostructures with
              few intermolecular entanglements and many of the other properties of more
              mechanically stable nanoparticles.  Nanostructured amphiphiles mad by
              cross-linking micelles formed from from block copolymers are true nanoparticles
              whose proposed applications of societal importance are vast ranging form
              environmental clean-up, to biomedical drug delivery, to functionalized surfaces
              to support tissue growth.  Whether any of these nanoscale polymer applications
              will actually succeed will depend on the ability of synthetic chemists to
              control structure at the atomic level.  This structure depends largely on how
              polymer chains pack within and on the nanoparticle.  The characterization of
              chain packing, cross-linking, and the spatial distribution of functional groups
              by solid-state NMR is sufficiently detailed that the directed synthesis of
              tailored nanostructures will be practical.

