              Schaefer, Jacob
MCB-0089905

The primary goal of this research is the
              application of solid-state NMR to three problems of importance in plant
              biophysics: (1) the identification of possible allosteric binding sites of the
              CO2-fixing enzyme, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase or Rubisco;
              (2) the characterization of the local conformation of a regulatory
              hormone-protein complex with a promoter DNA binding region; and (3) the
              determination of mechanisms of cross-linking for plant cell-wall proteins and
              pectins.  The principal technique to be used to solve all three problems will
              be stable-isotope labeling with rotational-echo double-resonance (REDOR)
              detection.  REDOR methods have been under development now for a decade.  This
              project represents an effort to extend the range of applicability of REDOR to
              more difficult problems than have yet been attempted.  This laboratory
              presently has four multi-frequency solid-state NMR spectrometers suitable for
              REDOR structural biology problems, and a proposal pending for funding to build
              two more.  Most plant science is done in industrial or academic biology
              laboratories where there is no access to solid-state NMR.  A secondary goal of
              this work is to make the plant-science community aware of the capabilities of
              solid-state NMR to solve problems in structural biology.

The long-range
              societal importance of this research is the safe, efficient production of more
              food.  Plants provide approximately 90% of the calories and 80% of the protein
              for human consumption.  This has been true for at least the last 13,000 years
              and is likely to continue to be true in the future.  An often-stated goal of
              biotechnology in modern agriculture is the improvement in crop yield to feed
              the hungry.  In many cases the hungry live on marginally arable land coming
              under cultivation for the first time.  Of prime importance in this situation is
              the efficiency of the carbon assimilation by Rubisco.  Rubisco catalyzes the
              conversion of substrate sugar and CO2 to -CH2O- (photosynthesis and carbon
              assimilation), and of substrate sugar and O2 to CO2 (photorespiration).  This
              destructive competition is inevitable because of the nature of the primary
              reaction site of Rubisco, which is highly conserved in all photosynthetic
              bacteria, algae, and plants.  After several billion years of evolution,
              however, higher plants have become capable of discriminating against the
              photorespiratory pathway in favor of the carbon assimilation pathway, even
              though O2 has grown to 21% of air and CO2 is only 0.03%.  Thus, plants grow
              aerobically whereas photosynthetic bacteria only grow anaerobically.  The
              control of Rubisco by plants may include alterations in the activity of the
              primary site caused by non-substrate small-molecule binding at one or more
              secondary sites.  The first research goal is to demonstrate the presence of
              such an allosteric effect by in vitro and in vivo experiments using 15N{31P}
              REDOR of  uniformly 15N-labeled Rubisco in the presence of various sugar
              phosphates.  The existence of allosteric control of
              photosynthesis/photorespiration might offer the possibility of altering
              photorespiratory control in plants like soybeans by genetic modification of
              secondary sites of Rubisco.  The motivation for such an effort would be to
              adapt the plant to the conditions of high temperature, low water, and high
              external CO2 expected to be common in the future.  The goal is to demonstrate
              that solid-state NMR can reveal structural details of allosteric binding sites
              not seen in crystal structures, and that solid-state NMR therefore has the
              potential to direct biotechnology in the modification of the
              photosynthesis/photorespiration selectivity of plants for improved carbon
              assimilation.

The millions of acres of farmland in the US currently planted
              with transgenic soybeans, corn, potatoes, and cotton now support plants that
              express foreign protein products (herbicide catabolizing enzymes and
              insecticides) continually.    Transgenic plants with expression switched on/off
              by application of an innocuous diffusable signal molecule are possible.  The
              second goal of this research is to develop solid-state NMR technology that can
              be used to help direct the design of the regulatory switch.

Finally, we
              recognize that a useful transgenic crop plant must be a highly integrated
              system of carbon, nitrogen, and water management in a mechanically sound
              structure.  The third goal of this research is to use solid-state NMR to gain
              an understanding of the architecture of the plant cell wall.  

