              The goal of this project is to bridge the gap between the molecular genetics of
              disease resistance genes and QTL studies examining the genetic architecture of
              natural variation in disease resistance. The investigator will use a
              candidate-gene analysis to test for associations between molecular variation in
              well-characterized resistance genes of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana and
              quantitative phenotypic variation in disease resistance to the bacteria
              Pseudomonas syringae. The interaction between  A. thaliana and P. syringae is
              an ideal system in which to investigate such association. A. thaliana has been
              a model system for studies of the molecular basis of disease resistance in
              plants, and four resistance genes (R genes) have been identified that recognize
              and trigger defense responses in plants challenged with P. syringae strains.
              Two of these genes, RPS4 and RPS5, are located very close to QTL the
              investigator identified during her postdoctoral research; the QTL affect
              quantitative variation in resistance to P. syringae. This raises the
              possibility that these R genes also affect the plant's response to pathogen
              attack quantitatively. These two QTL had very large effect and a significant
              dominance effect, as is expected for R genes. To determine whether molecular
              variation in the RPS4 and RPS5 genes contribute to the quantitative variation
              observed among A. thaliana accessions, the two genes will be sequenced in 19
              accessions from a world-wide collection of A. thaliana previously shown to vary
              quantitatively in disease resistance to P. syringae. Associations between
              molecular and phenotypic variation among these accessions will be tested using
              a nested analysis of variance. Significant results will  indicate that a given
              mutation during these genes' evolutionary history has caused a significant
              deviation from the average disease resistance phenotype. Such information will
              significantly increase our understanding of the evolution of these genes and
              provide insights into the functional role of these genes. 

Understanding how
              molecular variation affects quantitative phenotypic variation is an important
              goal of evolutionary biology as well as of agricultural and medical genetics.
              Although much has been learned recently about the genetic architecture of
              quantitative traits and about the molecular evolution of key genes, very few
              studies have attempted to link the two fields. This research will be an
              important step toward bridging the gap between these two fields and in
              furthering our understanding of the molecular basis of disease resistance in
              plants.

