                                                      Rapid advances in biological technology
              have radically changed  the  amount  and type of information available for the
              location of  genes.  Statistical  methodology  needs to keep pace  with  the 
              advances  in  molecular technology so that the information can be exploited to 
              the  fullest  possible  extent. In this project,  we  propose  to  greatly 
              expand  existing statistical methodology for the Iocation  of  binary  traits. 
              Our  proposed methodology will be able to model evolutionary  situations
              including: multiple genes, varying penetrance, and  simple  environmental
              effects. Not only will we provide methods for analyzing  these  data,  but we
              propose to provide a free computer program  that  will   make   these  methods 
              accessible  to  the  larger  scientific  community.    We  are proposing to
              develop methodology for traits that are binary  in  nature,  that is these
              traits are either present or  absent.  For  example, resistance to disease or
              resistance to pests is often scored  as  present  or absent. Understanding the
              underlying genetic  factors  influencing  plant  and  animal natural 
              resistance  to  disease  and  insects  is  critical  in the understanding of 
              evolutionary  forces.  Natural  selection acts through survival and fitness,
              and the fitness  of  individuals can be affected by resistance factors.  These 
              binary  traits, while simple in their description, are not necessarily simple 
              in  their  expression. The mechanisms underlying  resistance  may  be  complex,
               involving multiple genes and varying levels of  penetrance.  Resistance  may
              occur in certain combinations of alleles at  multiple  loci.  For example, it
              has been demonstrated in Maize that there  are  many  genetic  factors 
              affecting resistance to  Fusarium  stalk  rot  (McMullen  and  Simcox 1995). In
              addition to complex genetic  factors  affecting   resistance,  environmental 
              factors  may  also   play   a  significant  part  in the expression of
              resistance.  For  examp le,  a  disease   may  attack  a  point  in  a  signal 
              transduction  cascade  (Staskawicz,  Ausubel,  Baker, Ellis,  and  Jones 
              1995).  There  are  several  gene  products involved in the cascade and a
              change  in  the  gene  product  at  any point in the cascade may  affect  the 
              outcome  (disease present or absent). In this model, an environmental trigger, 
              the presence of a specific pathogen, is assumed (Staskawicz, Ausubel,  Baker,
              Ellis, and Jones 1995). Without the ability to directly  model  these  complex
              factors, the understanding of the influence  of  these  factors in the observed
              phenotype will be limited. Thus, it is  clear  that  statistical methods must
              exist that are capable  of  discerning  the  location and effect of multiple
              genes for a single binary  trait  in  an environmental setting. In these
              complex situations, particular  care  must  be taken in fitting the models. We
              will be using  maximum  likelihood approaches to develop and fit the
              statistical models.      The specific objectives of this grant are:    1.To 
              develop a solid methodology for the analysis of binary traits       resulting 
              from single gene and multigenic models  with  varying       levels of
              penetrance.      2.To  develop  solid methodology for the analysis of binary 
              traits       incorporating   environmental  factors  in   single   gene   and  
                  multigenic models with varying levels of penetrance.      3.To  provide an
              easy to use, free computer program to perform  the       analyses developed by
              objectives 1 and 2.    References      McMullen, M. and K. Simcox (1995).
              Genomic organization of disease    and insect resistance genes in    maize.
              Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 8, 811-815.    Staskawicz, B., F. Ausubel,
              B. Baker, J. Ellis, and J. Jones    (1995). Molecular genetics of plant disease
                    resistance. Science 268, 661-667.
