              This proposal is a comprehensive research plan for establishing a general
              framework for measuring available statistical information in gene mapping
              studies.  The key methodological challenge is to find a measure that (1) is a
              reliable index of the relative information specific to the purpose of a study,
              (2) conditions on particular data sets, (3) is robust in the sense of general
              applicability, including to small data sets, (4) is easy to compute, and (5) is
              subject to sensible combination axioms. Dealing with all these criteria
              simultaneously requires a careful combination of Bayesian and frequentist
              methods, especially for small samples. The PIs propose to investigate a
              large-sample framework involving likelihood functions only, and a small-sample
              framework from a robust Bayesian perspective. The robust Bayesian approach
              takes full advantage of the Bayesian formulation in deriving information
              measures with desirable coherence properties, and at the same time it seeks
              measures that are robust to various specifications and thus are more generally
              applicable. The PIs also propose to investigate several specific measures at
              two levels. At the more general level, the PIs will study and compare these
              measures in terms of their general behaviors and applicability, which are not
              restricted to the genetic setting. At the more specific level, the PIs plan to
              evaluate and apply these measures in specific genetic applications, including
              allele-sharing methods, methods for fine-scale genetic mapping (e.g.,
              haplotype-sharing methods), map comparisons (e.g., SNPs verses
              microsatellites), gene-gene interaction and gene-environmental interaction
              studies. 

Due to the huge potential benefit to the public health,
              geneticists and analytical researchers, including statisticians, have focused
              their efforts on finding genes affecting susceptibility to common, complex
              disorders such as diabetes, asthma, hypertension, cardiovascular and
              psychiatric diseases. The transmission of these disorders is complex, the
              etiologic complexity being increased by the action and interaction of multiple
              genes and environmental factors. There are other complications such as sporadic
              cases, incomplete penetrance (i.e., genetically predisposed individuals might
              not exhibit the disorder) and late age of onset. All these factors increase the
              difficulty of identifying the genetic components of the trait of interest. 
              Genetic linkage studies are often the first step in finding and cloning a
              disease gene. Their goal is to locate and, if possible, shorten regions on the
              genome that are very likely to contain disease susceptibility genes. In many
              studies, difficulty arises because most genetic data sets are incomplete and
              investigators want to know how much information in the data is available for
              the study relative to the amount of information that would have been available
              if the data were complete.  This relative information directly guides the
              investigator's follow-up strategies (e.g., using more genetic markers with
              existing DNA samples versus collecting DNA samples from more families), and a
              misleading measure can lead to a serious waste of human and financial resources
              as well as a delay in the progress of the underlying genetic studies. The goal
              of this proposal is to provide reliable measures of such relative information
              by using the current start-of-the-art statistical techniques. 

