              0204669
Duncan

The major focus of this research is the application of a
              stochastic 
calculus for a fractional Brownian motion to stochastic systems,
              
especially for the problems of identification and control.  The 
importance
              of a fractional Brownian motion in stochastic models 
has been exhibited in a
              wide variety of applications, such as, 
hydrology, economics and
              telecommunications.  One goal of the 
research is to develop further a
              stochastic calculus for a fractional 
Brownian motion similar to the way that
              the stochastic calculus for 
Brownian motion was developed to provide the
              tools for solving 
problems of stochastic systems with a fractional Brownian
              motion.  
Some tools of stochastic calculus that are planned for development
              
are necessary for solving the problems of identification, filtering 
and
              control of a stochastic system with a fractional Brownian 
motion.  The
              fractional Brownian motions for study include 
processes with values in both
              finite and infinite dimensional 
spaces.  The study includes the existence and
              the uniqueness of 
solutions of stochastic differential equations and
              stochastic partial 
differential equations with a fractional Brownian motion
              and 
martingales that are formed from a fractional Brownian motion.  
Another
              family of stochastic models that are planned for study is 
hidden Markov
              models.  An investigation of adaptive control for 
systems described by both
              fractional Brownian motions and hidden 
Markov models is planned.

This
              research focuses on a stochastic calculus for a fractional 
Brownian motion. 
              A fractional Brownian motion is a stochastic 
process that has been important
              in modeling physical systems such 
as those arising in hydrology, economics
              and telecommunications.  
Stochastic calculus provides the basic tool for
              solving problems of 
stochastic models that contain a fractional Brownian
              motion.  
Fractional Brownian motions have a self similarity property and
              
many have a long range dependence property that often occur in 
physical
              phenomena.  It is planned to study the control of partially 
known systems
              that contain fractional Brownian motion and 
hidden Markov models.  Such
              control problems naturally arise in 
applications.

