              	The aim of this project is to study mathematical problems associated with the
              control and performance analysis of stochastic networks. The network models
              being considered are heterogeneous, may have complex feedback mechanisms, and
              allow for stochastic variability in arrivals, service times and routing.
              Buffers in the network enable jobs to be stored that cannot be served
              immediately. In addition, the models with control allow for dynamic sequencing
              and alternate routing of jobs. Since the complexity of these network models
              usually precludes exact analysis, the focus is on approximate models. Two
              levels of approximation are being considered, namely fluid models (first order
              approximations) and diffusion models (second order approximations).
              Investigating the interplay between these models is an important feature of the
              research. The two main topics are (i) dynamic control through sequencing and
              alternate routing, and (ii) performance analysis for processor sharing
              networks. With regard to topic (i), some authors have successfully used
              diffusion control problems as formal tools for generating good control policies
              for some specific network models. However, there are few rigorous analyses of
              the performance of such policies. The PI is developing a systematic approach to
              finding and interpreting solutions of diffusion control problems and to
              analyzing the performance of the policies generated in this manner. Regarding
              topic (ii), the processor sharing discipline is an example of a service
              discipline for which a natural state descriptor involves a measure-valued
              process (to keep track of the residual service times of all jobs in the
              network). The PI is studying fluid and diffusion approximations of processor
              sharing networks with the aims of understanding the dynamics of such networks,
              obtaining measures of performance, and developing general tools for studying
              measure-valued processes associated with network models. 
	Stochastic networks
              are used as models for complex manufacturing, telecommunications and computer
              systems. A challenging problem for such networks is to design controls that are
              simple to implement and yet are near optimal in an appropriate sense. Motivated
              by such problems, a number of mathematical questions associated with
              controlling and analyzing the performance of stochastic networks are being
              studied under this grant. Since the complexity of stochastic network models
              usually precludes exact analysis, the focus is on approximate models with a
              hierarchical structure. As with recent work on the performance analysis of some
              networks, the interplay between the levels in this hierarchy is an important
              feature of the research.
