              New growth and fabrication techniques, together with chemical and electrostatic
              doping, are enabling an unprecedented control and manipulation of electrons in
              solids.  Examples range from chemically synthesized semiconductor nanowires to
              doped buckeyball crystals.  In many cases of interest the motion of itinerant
              electrons is intentionally restricted by sample geometry or by strong lattice
              commensurability effects.  Under these conditions, correlation effects are
              strongly enhanced and transitions into "localized" Mott or Wigner crystal
              states are possible.  Itinerant electrons proximate to such localized phases
              often exhibit unusual behavior, in apparent conflict with standard Fermi liquid
              theory.  Disentangling the subtle correlation effects and identifying the
              underlying physics in such technologically important systems presents a
              formidable challenge.

In this theoretical award, the quantum physics of
              correlated electrons will be explored by focusing on the behavior near, or even
              in, the localized regime.  Specifically, the following will be
              studied:

Transport in carbon nanotubes proximate to superconductors,
              studying the interplay between Luttinger liquid correlations and
              superconducting proximity effects;

Studying unidirectional charge density
              waves (stripe phases) in single- and bi-layer quantum Hall systems at higher
              Landau levels.  The goal is to describe the interstripe quasi-particle dynamics
              in such phases by exploiting the connections between chiral Luttinger liquid
              and composite Fermion approaches;

Continuing to develop a theoretical
              framework for describing the pseudogap regime of the cuprates - and Mott
              insulators more generally - by quantum disordering a superconductor via a
              proliferation of vortices.  In particular, the physics and implications of the
              2D Bose metal," a normal (non-super) fluid of 2D quantum bosons, will be
              explored;

Obtaining and analyzing microscopic models of 2D electrons with
              large ring exchange interactions which exhibit fractionalized quantum phases. 
              O finterest are the statistics of the particles and the experimental
              implications of the topological order.
%%%
New growth and fabrication
              techniques, together with chemical and electrostatic doping, are enabling an
              unprecedented control and manipulation of electrons in solids.  Examples range
              from chemically synthesized semiconductor nanowires to doped buckeyball
              crystals.  In many cases of interest the motion of itinerant electrons is
              intentionally restricted by sample geometry or by strong lattice
              commensurability effects.  Under these conditions, correlation effects are
              strongly enhanced and transitions into "localized" Mott or Wigner crystal
              states are possible.  Itinerant electrons proximate to such localized phases
              often exhibit unusual behavior, in apparent conflict with standard Fermi liquid
              theory.  Disentangling the subtle correlation effects and identifying the
              underlying physics in such technologically important systems presents a
              formidable challenge.

In this theoretical award, the quantum physics of
              correlated electrons will be explored by focusing on the behavior near, or even
              in, the localized regime.  The results will be of great fundamental interest
              and will also influence the development of devices based on these
              phenomena.
***



