              The investigator and his colleagues study problems in moduli theory
              and
birational geometry.  In moduli theory they study questions related to
              the
moduli stacks of twisted stable maps into a tame Deligne-Mumford
stack. 
              Questions addressed include constructions towards Gromov-Witten
invariants of
              stacks, generalizations of twisted stable maps to higher
dimensions and to
              wild stacks, and applications to the theory of admissible
covers, level
              structures, spin structures and higher dimensional varieties.
The investigator
              and colleagues will also study problems in birational
geometry: the strong
              factorization conjecture, which says that a birational map of smooth projective
              varieties should factor as a sequence of smooth blowings up followed by a
              sequence of smooth blowings down; and the toroidalization conjecture, which
              says that, given a surjective morphism of complex projective manifolds, there
              is a way to blow up both source and target along smooth centers so that the
              resulting map is a toroidal morphism.

The area of study of this project lies
              within algebraic geometry, the branch of mathematics devoted to geometric
              shapes called algebraic varieties, defined by polynomial equations. While
              algebraic geometry has contributed applications in coding, industrial control,
              and computation, the topics of this project are more closely related to
              applications in theoretical physics, where physicists consider algebraic
              varieties as components of the fine structure of our universe. This is
              especially true with the first topic, moduli theory. This theory studies a
              remarkable phenomenon in which the collection of all algebraic varieties of the
              same type is often manifested as an algebraic variety, called a moduli space,
              in its own right. Thus in algebraic geometry, the metaphor of thinking about a
              community of "organisms" as itself being an "organism" is not a just a metaphor
              but a rigorous and quite useful fact. Sometimes a collection of algebraic
              varieties manifests itself as a slightly more general object, called a stack,
              rather than a variety. Such stacks are a central object of study of this
              project. The other topic studied in this project is birational geometry, which
              is devoted to a certain abstract relationship, called birational equivalence,
              among algebraic varieties, which lies at the foundation of algebraic geometry.
              A goal of this project is to understand the connection between this abstract
              notion, and a much more concrete relationship given by an algebraic "surgery"
              procedure called "blowing up".
