              Subduction of active oceanic spreading ridges has been an important process in
              Cenozoic tectonics of the Pacific Basin.  The Chile Ridge, the divergent
              Nazca-Antarctic plate boundary, is currently subducting beneath continental
              South America along the Chile Trench at ~46.5S, forming a plate triple junction
              in the vicinity of the Taitao Peninsula.  Chile Ridge spreading rate and
              morphology, and the history of ridge subduction, are well-known: at least three
              southern Chile Ridge segments have subducted beneath South America 14, 6 and 3
              m.y. ago.  The current seismicity of the southern portion of subducting Nazca
              lithosphere defines the dip of the Nazca slab north of the
              Nazca-Antarctica-South America triple junction, albeit poorly.  However, south
              of the triple junction seismicity diminishes markedly and Antarctic plate slab
              dip is not known.  Nonetheless, given spreading and convergence histories, and
              knowledge of the motion of South America with respect to the deep mantle, the
              morphology of the subducted Nazca and Antarctic labs and their associated
              spreading ridge can be predicted. Thus, the loci and expected shapes of gaps
              formed between actively spreading subducted portions of the Nazca and Antarctic
              slabs - slab windows can be determined.

Implicit in the slab window idea is
              the assumption that spreading between the two sides of the subducted ridge
              continues after subduction, but that no new lithosphere is formed after
              subduction, leading to formation of a progressively widening gap and
              asthenospheric mantle flow between the two edges of the former ridge. 
              Preliminary results from studies of shear wave splitting and seismic
              attenuation in the Chile Ridge subduction region indicate that the upper mantle
              flow field beneath South America may be highly variable. Deployment of some 50
              passive-source seismic stations in the Chile Margin triple junction area offers
              the prospect of direct observation of a slab window and the possibility that
              the form and function of the mantle flow field in this geodynamically unique
              tectonic regime can be determined.  Studies of crust and upper mantle
              structure, mantle anisotropy, seismic attenuation, and tectonics of the
              Nazca-Antarctica-South America triple junction region are designed to yield the
              structure of slab gaps and mantle flow through those gaps.  Targeted tests of
              mantle responses to the ridge subduction include establishment of the presence
              and thickness of mantle asthenosphere beneath the study region, determination
              of potentially heterogeneous crustal and lithospheric structure due to slab
              window magmatic processes and enhanced tectonic erosion, observations of mantle
              flow directions in the vicinity of the gaps, and estimation of seismic
              attenuation and associated inferences concerning mantle temperature fields.
