              Survey of the Andean Butterfly Fauna of Ecuador

	The purpose of this award is
              to contribute to the cataloging of the World's declining biodiversity and to
              make that knowledge available to specialists and the general public. 
              Butterflies constitute perhaps the most familiar, conspicuous and well-studied
              group of insects.  This award will be instrumental in aiding a comprehensive
              survey of the butterfly fauna of the Ecuadorian Andes, one of the most
              species-rich but also threatened habitats on Earth.
	This project has two main
              objectives: to compile and synthesize data on the geographic and elevational
              distribution of the c. 2600 species of butterflies occurring in Andean Ecuador,
              with critical evaluation of the taxonomic status of all species; and to
              continue to improve the national collection in Ecuador and train Ecuadorian
              scientists in bioinventory techniques.  Field work will take place in
              under-sampled regions of the country, concentrate on taxonomic groups poorly
              represented in existing collections, and use a variety of underutilized field
              techniques to maximize the number of known and undescribed species recorded
              from each study site.
        This project will result in the most complete
              inventory of the butterfly fauna for any Andean country. It is estimated that
              as many as 200 species within the study area will need to be described.
              Identification keys will be published in journals and in interactive,
              electronic form to be accessible to non-specialists.  Information on the
              distributions for all species will be presented as an electronic database
              supplied to principal conservation groups within Ecuador and made available on
              the World Wide Web.  Comprehensive specimen collections will be deposited in
              the USA and the host country, in addition to a collection of alcohol-preserved
              material for molecular study.  It is hoped that the collections within the host
              country and published taxonomic studies will provide the basis for a long-term,
              national research program on butterfly systematics, biology and conservation. 
              The distributional data set will be the largest, most extensive and at the
              finest spatial scale available for any group of Neotropical insects.  The
              potential applications of these data are numerous, including testing
              biogeographical hypotheses concerning the origins of the west Andean (Choco)
              fauna and the montane faunas on both slopes, examining the effects of
              elevational gradients on species richness, testing the value of butterflies and
              butterfly groups as indicators of biodiversity, mapping the strength and type
              of biogeographic transition zones throughout the country, investigating
              patterns of species richness and endemism, and identifying priority areas for
              conservation in these highly threatened Andean forests.


