              Eucharitidae are one of the most diverse parasitic groups attacking eusocial
              insects. All eucharitid larvae are specialized parasites of ant pupae. Females
              deposit their eggs in plant tissue, and the active first-instar larvae are
              responsible for gaining transport to the ant nest. They are most common in
              tropical regions, but a few species occur as far north as Alaska and the Yukon.
              Initial results from a phylogenetic analysis of the 53 genera using 75
              morphological features of adults indicate a strong correlation between the
              relationships of Eucharitidae and their ant hosts: 1) parasitism of Myrmicinae
              appears correlated with use of a thrips intermediate host to gain access to the
              ant brood, 2) parasitism of Ponerinae is correlated with independent larvae,
              and 3) parasitism of Formicinae is associated with the attraction of ants to
              the egg mass. Preliminary results from data collected for the D2 and D3
              expansion regions of 28S rDNA show a strong correspondence with results from
              morphology-based analyses, but not without critical areas of conflict that need
              to be resolved. If strongly corroborated, molecular analyses will be used to
              reevaluate morphological character state coding and also to imply
              transformation series so that a more resolved hypothesis can be proposed for
              all genera based on morphology alone. Preliminary analyses suggest that
              Gollumiella and Akapala are key elements for establishing the polarity of
              behavioral changes in Eucharitidae, and emphasis will be made on obtaining new
              collections and biological information for these genera. If use of a thrips
              intermediate host is shown to be an ancestral mode for Oraseminae and
              Eucharitinae, this would suggest the behavior as primitive for the family and
              might indicate how the initial host shift to ants may have occurred. In
              Trigonalyoidea and Elasmus (Chalcidoidea), adaptation to parasitism of eusocial
              hosts may have been accomplished through a host shift from ancestors that were
              hyperparasitic in lepidopteran hosts to the hymenopteran predators of those
              Lepidoptera. If adaptation through a prey item to the predator is true for each
              of these groups, this general hypothesis could be applied to other parasitoids
              of eusocial insects.

In natural or agricultural systems, Chalcidoidea are
              one of the most important groups controlling insect populations. With only
              about 20,000 of the estimated 400,000 thousand species named, and far fewer
              with known biology, this is a relatively unknown group. Eucharitidae are
              unusual within this assemblage because the genera and species are well known
              and they have a relatively conservative biology that corresponds with the
              initial analyses of relationships. As well, they show a high degree of
              geographic endemism that corresponds with the breakup of the southern
              continents approximately 40 to 70 million years ago. By providing a robust
              phylogenetic hypothesis using multiple methods (molecular, morphological and
              behavioral), we can better understand the mechanism of host shifts and the
              correlated increase in taxonomic diversity. A resolved phylogeny and
              understanding of behavioral evolution for Eucharitidae would form a model
              system for future comparative studies across the superfamily.



