              This award is drawing upon the experience of the Consortium gained from its
              production of a two-semester developmental mathematics program, Developmental
              Mathematics and its Applications (DevMap), that offers an alternative approach
              to the traditional elementary and intermediate algebra courses typically
              offered at two-year and four-year colleges. In producing materials for the
              DevMap curriculum, the theme that mathematics is central to most advanced
              technological fields was incorporated. Applications and modeling problems from
              an array of industries and technical areas including engineering, biology,
              biochemistry, environmental science, precision agriculture, and GPS were
              developed. DevMap problems are authentic and current, are often open-ended and
              without unique solutions, and are true representations of what students will
              encounter in the workplace.
 Successful implementation of the DevMap
              curriculum and materials will be largely dependent on the ability of teachers
              to work with authentic but often unfamiliar applications of mathematics.
              Additionally, it will be extremely beneficial for instructors to develop
              additional applications tailored to meet the interests of their own students
              and the needs of the local employers. Thus, TeachMap is now addressing the need
              to provide teachers with the experience necessary to adapt the DevMap
              curriculum into their classrooms. This award creates a professional development
              program for teachers of mathematics in ATE and ATE-type programs that is
              preparing them to meet two challenges:
1. how to use ATE-type applications to
              enhance student learning; and
2. how to develop ATE-type applications that are
              responsive to the interests of the students and the needs of the local
              employers.
 Through participation in the TeachMap program, instructors are
              learning how to:
- use open-ended, authentic applications in developmental
              mathematics classes;
- locate sources of new problems suitable for students in
              particular ATE programs;
- identify resources (including the WWW) that might
              provide data and specific problem settings;
- create new problems that are
              open-ended and, in some cases, that require student research;
- access and use
              appropriate technologies including geometric utility programs, spreadsheets,
              
and virtual laboratories;
- construct learning environments appropriate to
              the problems being modeled by using short- 
and long-term group activities and
              project-based assessments.
