              
Telomeres, the protein-DNA structures present at the ends of eukaryotic
              chromosomes, serve functions necessary for maintaining chromosome integrity. 
              These functions include a) a mode of replication that solves a problem with the
              replication of ends, b) the capping of the chromosomal DNA to prevent terminal
              degradation and instability, and c) the ability of telomeres to quiet gene
              expression from genes near the ends of the chromosomes.  The long-term goal of
              this project is to understand the mechanism and inheritance of telomeric
              silencing using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  Three specific aims
              include: First, continuation of previous work aimed at understanding the
              function of one of the central regulators of silencing, Sir3p.  Several key
              steps of silencing require Sir3p.  These include a) the initiation of
              silencing, b) subtelomeric/telomeric associations, c) the propagation (or
              spreading) of silencing, and d) the ability to interact with key silencing
              factors.  Sir3p may represent a functional paradigm for silencing regulators. 
              Specific Aim 1 involves defining the functionally critical amino acids in the
              Sir3p C-terminal domain (CTD) minimal silencer, the proteins that interact with
              the CTD, and the sir3p domains involved in events downstream of the initiation
              events.  Cellular memory, the ability of a cell to perpetuate a specific
              transcription state through multiple generations, is a central characteristic
              of position effect, of variegation and of differentiation in most eukaryotes. 
              Specific Aim 2 centers specifically on the relationship between telomeric
              chromatin state and heritability  The telomeric chromatin state will be
              determined by the degree of accessibility of artificially introduced telomeric
              restriction sites to exogenous probes.  Specific Aim 3 investigates the
              relationship between heritability and subtelomeric structure using the
              chromatin immunoprecipitation assay system.  This technique permits the mapping
              of specific chromatin factors that are in close proximity to defined segments
              of subtelomeric DNA. Several issues are being explored, including the
              relationship between a)telomeric length and the formation of unique
              subtelomeric chromatin structures, b) heritability and formation of specific
              subtelomeric structures, and c)telomeric and subtelomeric states.  In addition
              the unique role of yeast chromatin factor-1 in the propagation of silencing at
              the structural level is being examined.  Understanding how chromatin structure
              can regulate gene expression is very important as this type of regulation takes
              place in imprinting and during development.  It is also a major issue in the
              generation of transgenic organisms.  Yeast is the most tractable system in
              which to study this phenomenon.

