              Abstract

Planning Grant for a Center for Integrative Developmental Science
              Focused on Development During Key Transitions

J. Lawrence Aber & Jeanne
              Brooks-Gunn

The well-being of children and families remains a prominent
              issue on public agendas across the political spectrum.  But problems in this
              area - child poverty, child abuse and neglect, violence, and unequal access to
              health care or education, to name a few - have outlasted numerous policy
              initiatives aimed at relieving them.  The Institute for Child and Family Policy
              (ICFP) at Columbia University marshals the interdisciplinary resources of a
              leading research university to confront problems that have eluded the grasp of
              isolated disciplines.  The National Science Foundation's Children's Research
              Initiative will allow ICFP to create a Working Group on Integrative
              Developmental Science.  The purpose of the Working Group is to bring together
              scientists from a broad range of disciplines at Columbia (developmental
              psychology, educational psychology, social psychology, psychiatry,
              epidemiology, economics, sociology, and social work) in order to design and
              plan new and more integrative forms of scientific inquiry into children's
              learning and development.
 
	To understand - and develop solutions for - the
              intractable problems facing children and adolescents, the focus of inquiry will
              be on "turning points in children's development during key periods of
              transition."  Independently, Columbia scientists and affiliates are already
              studying children during four key transitions over the first two decades of
              life: (1) Prenatal to Toddler years, (2) Preschool to Middle Childhood, (2)
              Middle Childhood to Adolescence, and (4) Adolescence to Young Adulthood.  These
              transitions represent periods of dramatic growth and qualitative change in
              children's biological, social-emotional, and cognitive processes.  They are
              also periods of important changes in the structure and meaning of children's
              interpersonal relationships and social and learning contexts.  

	During
              these key periods of transition, children's development is especially open or
              receptive to influence, positive and negative.  The Working Group of scientists
              at Columbia proposes to design new studies of how certain experiences or events
              function as critical "turning points" (moments of decisive influence) in
              development.  In order to pose and answer the most important scientific
              questions, it is necessary to effectively integrate both theories and methods
              across a range of disciplines.  No single discipline or current
              cross-disciplinary collaboration is sufficiently integrative to arrive at the
              most important new scientific breakthroughs. 

	Over a nine-month planning
              period, the Working Group will: (1) hold the first Columbia Conference on
              Integrative Developmental Science to broaden and deepen the theoretical and
              analytic approaches scientists take to their studies; (2) organize and support
              2-3 smaller research planning subgroups to design new multidisciplinary,
              integrative research on aspects of "turning points in development;" and (3)
              prepare a proposal for the National Science Foundation to create a Columbia
              University Center on Integrative Developmental Science that will conduct the
              studies designed by the subgroup(s).

