              Policy-makers and policy entrepreneurs across the political spectrum tout
              community-based environmental protection (CBEP) as the future in environmental
              policy. Locally implemented and enforced environmental policies should produce
              more democratic, more civic-oriented, less contentious, more inclusive, and
              more efficient environmental decisions compared to traditional federal
              "command-and-control" environmental regulation.   The community -- not federal
              bureaucrats -- makes the core decisions in implementing policy and evaluating
              policy tradeoffs.  At the same time, these procedural innovations should yield
              superior environmental outcomes because decisions are informed by local
              knowledge, involve local stakeholders, and are sensitive to local conditions.
              In short, CBEP is supposed to produce better law, better policy, better
              politics, and better environmental outcomes.

	Enthusiasm notwithstanding,
              the CBEP model raises a number of serious questions: Are local environmental
              "policymakers" able to access and use the latest and most relevant scientific,
              engineering, and economic knowledge in decision-making? Is CBEP actually more
              inclusive, or do locally-based environmental decisions become captive of narrow
              economic and development interests? Is CBEP really a universal model for
              American communities, or do disparities in community wealth and capacity
              portend uneven (inequitable) levels of environmental protection across
              communities?  More broadly: Do communities with substantial control over
              environmental protection actually attain better environmental outcomes compared
              to traditional "command and control" regulation.

	To address these
              questions, this project analyzes the implementation of Massachusetts' Wetlands
              Protection Act (MWPA), which has existed as a "natural experiment" in
              community-based efforts to protect the environment for over 20 years.  We
              examine two contrasting forms of CBEP:  (non-bylaw) communities versus (bylaw)
              communities.  The non-bylaw approach is a "weak" form of CBEP in which town
              (volunteer) conservation commissions act as an implementing agents for the
              state Department of Environmental Protection, where state regulations and
              oversight strongly proscribe local environmental decision-making (189 towns) in
              protecting wetlands.  In contrast the bylaw approach is a "strong" form of CBEP
              where town (volunteer) conservation commissions act to protect wetlands under
              their own locally-produced bylaws and rules, independent of state regulations
              and oversight (161 towns).

	It is the comparison of these two forms that
              interests us. In a broad-based statistical analysis we are examining the record
              of wetlands protection across all 351 Massachusetts towns.  Combining graphic
              information system (GIS) data, site-specific wetlands permitting data, and
              community socio-economic data we address the questions posed above in the
              specific context of wetlands protection.
 
	Our analytic approach involves
              four innovations over existing studies.  First and foremost we devise a set of
              consistent, reliable, and substantively meaningful measures of environmental
              performance across communities. Second, we set up a design that controls for
              the many confounding influences and characteristics that have plagued the
              analytic utility of prior scholarship on CBEP.  Third, and derived from the
              above, we devise consistent and rigorous measures for categorizing communities
              most directly relevant to evaluating environmental decision-making.  Fourth we
              study a single environmental domain - wetlands - that is broadly salient to
              community development policy and politics.
