              This award supports the third DLESE Annual Meeting. This meeting will be held at
              Cornell University, Ithaca, New York from June 29 to July 2, 2002. The annual
              meeting will be preceded by a two-day preparation and planning meeting. This
              Annual Meeting will provide DLESE the opportunity to both demonstrate advances
              in the library's development and develop and strengthen ties between current
              and new collaborators in collections building, tool development, resource
              discovery, metadata and controlled vocabulary development efforts. The meeting
              will establish a platform where both the developers and library users will have
              opportunities to discuss a variety of issues. The developers will be able to
              demonstrate their new library functions, the users will be able to provide
              important feed back to the developers, and both developers and users will learn
              from their peers about potential uses, and make suggestions for critical
              improvements needed to make the library a stronger and more attractive
              learning/teaching environment for students/teachers from all levels of
              educational activities. The meeting will incorporate efforts to address issues
              such as diversity/underrepresented populations, academic recognition,
              pedagogical assessment and evaluation, sociological effects of electronic
              community collaboration and the development of mechanisms to provide guidance
              and support in designing new instructional materials that support
              teaching/learning about the Earth system. The Annual Meeting provides an
              opportunity for leaders representing these diverse interests in Earth system
              education to meet as a community and to work together to shape DLESE as a
              resource that serves our needs. The conveners will invite 115 people to the
              meeting. The invited people will represent a broader community including
              teachers from K-12 schools, college and university professors, and researchers
              in both earth and information technology sciences. The maximum number of
              participants will be limited to 200 for both logistical and practical concerns.
