              The Evolution of Herbivorous Marine Mammals: Ecological and Evolutionary
              Transitions in the Sirenia and Desmostylia
by
Paul L. Koch

In modern
              marine ecosystems, mammals play a minor role as primary consumers of marine
              plants, and the diversity of herbivorous marine mammals (e.g., sea cows) is
              significantly lower than that of carnivorous marine mammals (e.g, seals or
              whales).  The diversity of marine herbivores in the past was much higher than
              today.  What explains this disparity in the number of marine mammal herbivores
              between modern and ancient ecosystems?  How do the ecological and physiological
              requirements imposed by a herbivorous diet differ from those faced by marine
              carnivores?  Do these differences contribute to the differences in diversity
              between these two groups?
To answer these questions, we propose to look at the
              ecological and physiological transitions that occurred during the evolution of
              two groups - sirenians (i.e. manatees and dugongs) and a related group of
              hippo-sized mammals called desmostylians.  We will examine animals from three
              time intervals.  First, we will examine the ecology of the earliest sirenians
              and desmostylians from the Eocene (50 Ma), focusing on animals involved in the
              transition from terrestrial to marine systems, and correlating this change in
              habitat with changes in physical features, such as body size and limb
              morphology.  Next, we plan to study the interaction of desmostylians and
              sirenians from the north Pacific during the Middle Miocene to assess how marine
              resources were partitioned between these groups, and how Pacific ecosystems
              were able to sustain a higher level of diversity of marine mammalian herbivores
              than today.  Finally, our work in the Pacific will continue by looking at the
              lineage that gave rise to the Steller's sea cow, exploring what environmental
              and physiological factors facilitated the evolution of the largest marine
              herbivore ever.
Our study will chiefly rely on three stable isotope systems. 
              First, carbon isotopes will be used as a proxy for diet that will allow us to
              discriminate between feeding in terrestrial versus marine systems.  Second,
              variability in oxygen isotope values will be used as a proxy for the extent to
              which early members of each group used aquatic habitats.  Mean oxygen isotope
              values will serve as a preliminary indicator of reliance on marine versus
              freshwater habitats.  Finally, calcium isotopes will allow us to identify
              trophic level and assess whether early sirenians and desmostylians supplemented
              their herbivorous diet with a higher energy food resource (e.g, meat) as they
              overcame potential energetic barriers associated with the transition from land
              to sea.  Together, these three systems will allow us to assess the ecological
              preferences of these groups, and better understand the factors involved in the
              evolution of marine herbivores.
	

