              0129844
Leon V. Kochian

Contamination of soils with toxic heavy metals is a
              serious worldwide problem both for human health and agriculture. Cleanup of
              hazardous wastes by the currently used engineering-based technologies has been
              estimated to cost at least $400 billion in the U.S. alone. Recently, there has
              been considerable interest in the use of terrestrial plants as an alternative,
              "green technology" for the remediation of surface soils contaminated with toxic
              heavy metals. The principal behind phytoremediation is to grow plants on a
              contaminated site in much the same way crop plants are grown on agricultural
              soils. If the plants have an affinity for the heavy metals in the soil, they
              can extract the metals from the soils and accumulate them in the above-ground
              shoot biomass. These heavy metal-containing shoot tissues are then harvested
              and ashed to reduce their volume prior to storage in a waste repository. This
              plant growth and harvesting process is repeated until the level of contaminant
              in the soil is reduced to acceptable levels (usually a number of years).

A
              major factor behind the recent interest in phytoremediation of metal polluted
              soils has been the growing awareness by the scientific community of the
              existence of a number of plant species that not only can tolerate high levels
              of toxic heavy metals in the soil, but actually can accumulate these metals to
              very high levels in the easily harvested above-ground shoot biomass. Over 200
              terrestrial species have been reported that grow on high metal soils and can
              tolerate and accumulate high levels of heavy metals such as Zn, Cd, Cu, and Ni
              in their shoots. These plants have been coined hyperaccumulators; the very
              existence of these interesting metal hyperaccumulator species suggests that the
              genetic potential exists for phytoremediation to be successful. Most of these
              hyperaccumulator species, however, are small and slow growing, and because they
              produce limited shoot biomass their potential for large-scale decontamination
              of polluted soils is limited. Transferring the genes expressing the
              hyperaccumulating phenotype to higher shoot biomass-producing plants has been
              suggested as an avenue for enhancing the potential of phytoremediation as a
              viable commercial technology. Progress towards this goal, however, has been
              hindered by a lack of understanding of the basic molecular, biochemical and
              physiological mechanisms involved in heavy metal hyperaccumulation.

One of
              the best known metal hyperaccumulators is Thlaspi caerulescens, a member of the
              cabbage family that can accumulate the heavy metals cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn)
              to extremely high levels in the shoot. Additionally, certain ecotypes of T.
              caerulescens have been reported to accumulate high levels of other heavy
              metals, including Ni and Co. The unique physiology of heavy metal transport and
              tolerance in Thlaspi caerulescens makes it a very interesting experimental
              system for basic research aimed at elucidating plant mechanisms and the
              associated genes controlling heavy metal hyperaccumulation.

The goals of
              this research are to identify the basic mechanisms of heavy metal
              hyperaccumulation in plants, and to isolate and characterize the suite of genes
              that underly this hyperaccumulation trait in Thlaspi caerulescens. Dr.
              Kochian's group will use recent advances in plant molecular biology and
              genomics to identify both metal transporter genes involved in metal
              accumulation and tolerance,  as well as genes involved in the production of low
              molecular weight organic compounds (e.g., peptides, organic genes, amino acids,
              metallothioneins, phytochelatins) that can bind and detoxify Zn and Cd in plant
              cells. Based on the recent sequencing and analysis of the Arabidopsis genome,
              it is now known that higher plants employ the same families of metal
              transporters recently identified and characterized in yeast, bacteria and
              mammals for metal accumulation and homeostasis. Dr. Kochian's group has cloned
              genes in T. caerulescens from these different  metal transporter gene families
              and will characterize these transporters to determine their role in metal
              hyperaccumulation. This characterization will include determining in which
              plant tissue and cell type different genes are expressed, the membrane
              localization of  transport proteins to help assign a potential role for each
              transporter, and the elucidation of the physiological function of individual
              metal transporters. They also are expressing T. caerulescens genes in yeast to
              look for genes conferring metal tolerance through the production of metal
              binding organic ligands.

These approaches should allow the investigators to
              identify the suite of genes that confer heavy metal hyperaccumulation in T.
              caerulescens and to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) for this trait. The
              ultimate goal of this research is to use these hyperaccumulation genes to
              develop transgenic plants that both are metal hyperaccumulators and produce
              high shoot biomass , and thus will be well suited for the phytoremediation of
              metal contaminated soils.

This project was funded through the Joint Program
              on Phytoremediation, co-sponsored by the Environmental Protection Agency, the
              National Science Foundation, the Office of Naval Research, and the Strategic
              Environmental Research and Development Program.

