              
One defining feature of plant organisms is the photosynthetic production of
              sucrose.  Essentially, carbon from the atmosphere is assimilated into sucrose
              which is then transported throughout the plant where it is used as an energy
              source.  The productivity, or yield, of plants directly depends on the net
              assimilation of carbon into sucrose and ultimately how much of this sucrose is
              transported to the harvestable components of plants, such as the seed. 
              Understanding how sucrose is transported through the plant and how this
              transport is regulated is critical for both for understanding fundamental plant
              biology and optimization of plant productivity.
The sucrose transport protein
              from soybean cotyledons appears to interact with another protein in the cytosol
              of plant cells.  This interacting protein contains at least three ankyrin
              repeat motifs which often are involved in linking membrane transport proteins
              to the cellular cytoskeleton.  Since the sucrose transporter interacts with
              other proteins, it may be that this interaction is important in the assembly of
              sucrose transporters on the cell surface or in the formation/disassembly of
              protein complexes that both import sucrose and metabolize it further.  Thus,
              sucrose transport may be regulated in part by the nature of interactions
              between the transporter and this interacting partner.
This research will
              attempt to elucidate the functional significance of this protein-protein
              interaction in sucrose transport.  The three primary objectives are as
              follows.
Objective #1.  Identify proteins that interact with the ankyrin-like
              protein.  To understand the nature of this interaction, it is important to
              determine if other proteins might also be brought into contact with the plant
              sucrose transporter.  For instance, if sucrose metabolizing enzymes are part of
              a complex with the sucrose transporter, then sucrose import may be directly
              linked to its subsequent metabolism.  These experiments will address this
              possibility.
Objective #2.  Assess the role of protein-protein interaction on
              sucrose uptake.  If the interaction of the sucrose transporter with the
              ankyrin-like protein has an impact on sucrose uptake in the plant, then
              disruption of the ankyrin-like protein function should disrupt sucrose
              transport in distinct ways.  The ankyrin-like protein function will be
              disrupted using gene-silencing technology and sucrose uptake parameters
              assessed.
Objective #3.  Examine the subcellular localization of the sucrose
              transporter and the ankyrin-like protein.  Several important questions are
              addressed by characterizing the nature of the sucrose transporter:ankyrin-like
              protein (ST:ALP) interaction in the cell.  Does the ST:ALP complex change
              during cotyledon development?  When does the ST:ALP complex form relative to
              synthesis of the sucrose transporter and the ankryin-like protein?  Our mRNA
              analysis suggests that the ankyrin-like protein accumulates earlier in
              cotyledon development than does the sucrose transporter and this raises the
              question as to whether sucrose transporter is bound to the ankyrin-like protein
              as it is translated.  Immunocytochemical analysis of the sucrose transporter,
              the ankyrin-like protein, and other potential interacting proteins confocal and
              electron microscopy will address these issues.

