              Many plants produce a rich floral nectar to entice animals to their flowers. 
              This attraction of bats, birds, or insects benefits the plants by increasing
              cross-pollination between different individuals and by improving seed
              production.  The nectar in flowers is produced by a specialized floral organ
              termed the nectary gland.  The nectaries of ornamental tobacco are simple in
              structure and of extremely large size.  Further, ornamental tobacco produces
              hundreds of flowers per plant, so isolation of nectary tissues for gene cloning
              and biochemical analyses is greatly facilitated.  Thus, ornamental tobacco is
              the ideal system to study nectary development and function.  Understanding the
              mechanisms of nectary function in tobacco will facilitate interpretation of
              nectary function in other plant species that are more difficult to study
              because of small nectary size and multiplicity of nectary types.  This project
              will utilize ornamental tobacco to understand the regulation of nectar
              production, which is a critical element of flower function and angiosperm
              biology.

While it is clear that nectar is rich in sugars, the metabolic
              source of the sugars in nectar remains unknown. This project hypothesizes that
              starch deposited in the nectary gland during development is degraded at floral
              maturity to produce sugars that flow into nectar.  The first goal of the
              project is to identify specific structural changes in nectary starch that occur
              during the transition from developing to secreting nectaries.  This will
              provide insight into the biochemical processes required for nectary starch
              formation and usage. The second goal is to quantify the flow of transported
              sugars both into starch and directly into nectar.  This will determine whether
              starch is the sole source of nectar sugars.  Third, this project will identify
              starch metabolic genes that are expressed at various stages in the nectary
              gland and will finally identify proteins that are actively involved in starch
              biosynthesis and catabolism in nectaries.  Identification of these proteins and
              their genes will provide potential targets for manipulation to improve
              pollinator attraction.  Together, the results of this project will permit full
              evaluation of the role that starch plays in nectar secretion, and provide
              insight into the regulatory mechanisms that underlie starch deposition and
              catabolism during nectary development.

Because nectar sugars are one of the
              most important factors that attract insect pollinators to flowers and because
              increased pollinator visitation results in greater pollination and higher seed
              yields, understanding the production of sugars in nectar will provide new
              targets for genetic manipulation to increase the agricultural yield of many
              fruits, nuts, berries, vegetables, forages, fiber and oilseed crops as well as
              flowers.  Such increases in food, fiber, and floral production will be required
              in the coming decades as the world's population approaches 10 billion. 
              Furthermore, these studies will determine how nectary starch metabolism is
              co-regulated with flower development to allow optimum timing and flux of
              carbohydrate into nectar, a process of enormous adaptive significance to many
              flowering plant species.

