              
The process of speciation requires the evolution of characters that act as
              barriers to gene flow.  The barriers themselves are well studied but the
              genetic details of how they evolve and persist remain surprisingly obscure. 
              Recent results from genetic linkage mapping reveal that races of pea aphids
              specialized on different crop plants differ at relatively few key genomic
              regions, with much of the genome remaining quite similar between these
              incipient species.  This project concerns whether the same genetic markers
              linked to genomic regions controlling divergent host plant use in one
              geographical population of pea aphid (New York) are also associated with
              divergence between specialized pea aphid races in other locations (Iowa and
              Maryland).  This will be accomplished by genotyping 200 aphids from each
              location.  Finding that the same markers tag divergent genomic regions in
              different specialist populations will improve our understanding of the genetic
              processes involved in the evolution of divergent populations and demonstrate
              the utility of these mapped markers in further analyses of the evolution of
              specialization and speciation in pea aphids.  

This project will form the
              basis of a novel approach to the study of the genetic mechanisms of ecological
              specialization and speciation.  It will also serve as a training ground in
              multidisciplinary approaches to speciation for undergraduates and graduate
              students.  Moreover, this investigation of the genetics of crop pests will
              inform and influence future work in agricultural entomology.  Both PIs are
              actively involved in outreach activities designed to further understanding of
              basic evolutionary principles among agriculturalists, conservation biologists,
              religious leaders and the general public. 

