              The Earth Science Storybook Project

The Earth Science Storybook Project is a
              pilot project based upon the premise that current reform efforts in science
              education must have a focus on teacher education. The project develops a
              process whereby university faculty can serve as positive mentors to preservice
              teachers and foster sound professional development for teachers. The project
              presents preservice teachers the opportunity to research and write
              standards-based children's literature (storybooks) in earth science and test
              the idea that use of creative skills will be a meaningful learning experience
              leading to a more successful degree of professional development for teachers.
              Earth scientists help the preservice teachers to create scientifically sound
              products that teach concepts required by state and national standards for the
              K-4 grade levels. These geoscientists work with the participants to design
              simple experiments that will be included in the storybook narratives designed
              to promote scientific investigation in K-4 classes. The emphasis on the design
              and implementation of experiments gives the participating preservice teachers
              and K-4 students a glimpse of the way science is practiced. Elementary
              education majors enrolled in an introductory geology class at Brigham Young
              University are mentored as they research a specific earth science topic and
              write a short storybook on that topic. Potential storybook topics are taken
              from national and state science education standards and are appropriate for
              children at the K-4 level. Participating preservice teachers are mentored
              throughout the process of creating their storybooks in order to foster
              development of positive attitudes toward scientific inquiry and enhanced
              pedagogical content knowledge in science. The storybooks will be professionally
              illustrated. As the project continues past the pilot stage, it will focus on
              dissemination of the storybooks into a local school district. Assessment of the
              storybooks themselves will be conducted in terms of their affective outcomes on
              teachers and students and their effectiveness in fostering development of
              content knowledge for K-4 students at the district level.

