              0095700 DasSarma and Schreier
In this project, a combination of genetic and
              biochemical approaches are being used to investigate purple membrane synthesis
              in a salt-loving archaeon, Halobacterium NRC-1.  The purple membrane is a
              specialized region of the cell membrane that contains a two-dimensional
              crystalline array of a single chromoprotein, bacteriorhodopsin (BR).  BR is
              composed of a 1:1 complex of the protein moiety (bacterio-opsin) and
              chromophore (retinal).  When fully induced under microaerobic and high
              illumination conditions, purple membrane can cover up to 50 % of the cell's
              surface and is able to support a period of phototrophic growth.  Previously,
              transcription of the bop gene was shown to depend upon an upstream gene, bat,
              and found to be sensitive to DNA supercoiling.  Additionally, the minimal
              bacterio-opsin gene (bop) promoter was extensively mutagenized and shown to
              contain an essential upstream activator sequence (UAS), a TATA box deviating
              from the archaeal consensus, and a DNA supercoiling-sensitivity site within an
              alternating purine-pyrimidine region.  The likely regulator, Bat, contains
              homologies to the PAS-PAC (or LOV) redox sensing domain, a GAF light-responsive
              domain, and an AraC type helix-turn-helix (HTH) DNA binding motif.  Three other
              genes (crtB1, blp, and brp) containing UAS elements similar to the bop gene,
              and clustered immediately upstream of bop, showed similar or identical
              regulatory characteristics, and six TATA-binding protein (tbp) genes and seven
              TFIIB (tfb) genes were found in the genome sequence.  The major goal of this
              project is to understand the mechanism of coordinate regulation of
              bacterio-opsin and retinal at the genetic level.  Specifically, the project
              will (1) identify the proteins binding to the bop promoter, (2) define the
              mechanism of action of the pleiotropic regulator, Bat, in concert with other
              transcriptional factors, and (3) establish the members of the purple membrane
              regulon.  The long-term goal is to better understand the mechanisms of
              coordinate regulation of multigene systems in archaea, which should shed light
              on the evolution of regulatory mechanisms across all branches of life.

