              

With National Science Foundation support Dr. Charles Stanish and his
              colleagues will continue their work studying the role of trade in the
              development of the first complex societies in the high Andes.  Over the past 15
              years, this American and Peruvian research team led by Stanish has uncovered a
              circuit of over major 80 prehistoric settlements, some dating back more than
              4,000 years, along a trade route that is still in use today.  The systematic,
              scientific analysis of these ancient sites reveals the role of trade in the
              origins of state societies and urban life in this part of the world.  Using
              theories developed in anthropology and economics, this work will assess the
              degree to which trade between the high plains in the Andes and the Amazon basin
              was a primary factor in the rise of the first state society in the area, known
              as Pucara.  Pucara flourished from ca. 400 BC to AD 300.  For years,
              archeologists have debated why people stopped the very successful hunting and
              gathering lifeways of biologically modern humans that lasted for over 100,000
              years and, in a very short period of time, developed agriculture, towns, and
              cities, the hallmarks of human civilization as we know it.  This phenomenon
              occurred independently in only a handful places on the earth, including the
              Andes where this project is based.   This comparative scientific research
              provides some clues as to how human urban societies, in the past and today,
              evolved and thrived in environmentally and politically challenging conditions. 
              This archaeological work not only helps us recover the lost cultural heritage
              of the earth and illustrates the great achievements of native Americans, but it
              provides guideposts for modern economic development.  From agricultural systems
              to modern transportation networks, these archaeological data define the
              successful adaptations of people in the past, adaptations that represent
              optimal land use strategies that evolved over millennia.  Combined with
              independent paleoclimate research also supported by NSF, these data provide a
              rich view of environmental change and human adaptation at a macroregional
              level.  Such data can, and are, used to guide future development in the
              region.
        Stanish uses regional archaeological methodologies to define
              the prehistoric patterns of land use.  Using GPS technologies, low altitude
              photography, and intensive ground-truthing, the entire range of prehistoric
              settlements can be discovered in the region.  With private support from the
              Cotsen Institute of Archaeology at UCLA, Stanish and his team use a variety of
              analytical techniques, such as obsidian sourcing, neutron activation analyses,
              and enhanced GIS mapping to define the cultural adaptations in the region over
              several millennia.  This work brings together US and Peruvian specialists in
              archaeology and geography to conduct an integrated, systematic, and  long-term
              research program.  It will directly deal with the origins of complex society in
              this part of the world while contributing to our global data base on the
              political and economic structure of archaic states.  These data, in turn, will
              be used to create, test, and refine models of early state development,
              maintenance, and collapse. 


