              Reeder
EAR-0207756


This research project will investigate the fundamental
              structural and coordinative aspects of metal sorption at the calcite-water
              interface.  The experimental approach will combine laboratory experiments in
              model systems with spectroscopic techniques to characterize the detailed
              coordination geometry of selected metal and metalloid species adsorbed on
              calcite.  Metals of interest include divalent lead and cadmium, selected
              trivalent rare-earth elements, and arsenate anions.  These species are
              important contaminants in soils, sediments, aquifers, and other near-surface
              environments.  One goal of the research is to determine the role of adsorption
              in controlling binding site preferences for minor element uptake by calcite
              during crystal growth.  Observations that non-octahedral surface complexes for
              Zn(II) and Cu(II) adsorbed on calcite result in preferential uptake on the less
              constrained of two binding sites, suggests that site preferences for other
              metals should also correlate with surface complex geometry.  The proposed
              research tests this hypothesis for selected metals (Pb and Cd) and provides
              structural information that can be used in predictive models.  A further goal
              of the research is to evaluate how adsorption complexes control the
              coordination of rare-earth elements following incorporation into calcite, where
              observations have shown differences in coordination number between light and
              heavy lanthanides.  The role of solution pH on the structure of surface
              complexes will also be evaluated in laboratory and spectroscopic studies. 
              Another component of the research project will identify the mechanism of
              adsorption of arsenate ions on calcite.  Arsenate, an important contaminant in
              some natural waters, shows similarities in behavior with phosphate.  The latter
              is a strong inhibitor of calcite surface reactivity, and its presence may
              reduce the ability of calcite to sorb and incorporate other impurity species. 
              The results of this aspect of the research will provide insight to the
              mechanism of surface inhibition as well as provide fundamental information
              about arsenate interactions with calcite.

Results from this research project
              will contribute to a broader understanding of the molecular-scale processes
              that govern the distribution and behavior of geochemically and environmentally
              important elements in Earth's near-surface environment.  The results of this
              work will also contribute to an understanding of ways in which the threat to
              society posed by metal contaminants can be reduced.  

