              This award supports theoretical and computational research and education on the
              3-dimensional evolution of strain-generating complex structures formed in
              diffusional and diffusionless transformations as well as of the evolution of
              defects, e.g. dislocations and cracks, formed in plastic deformation and
              fracture.  In spite of an apparent diversity of these problems, there is a
              profound commonality among them: they present different aspects of the problem
              of self-organization of a multi-mode complex system with a long-range
              strain-induced anisotropic interaction. The Phase Field Microelasticity model
              developed by the PI together with 3-dimensional computer simulations will be
              used to investigate complex microstructures to elucidate the mechanisms
              controlling their evolution in technologically important systems. The relative
              role played by thermodynamics, crystallographic symmetry, microelasticity, and
              kinetics in microstructure evolution will be investigated to provide insight
              into mechanisms of thermal stability of microstructure, to predict the
              morphology and evolution rate, and to help establish the optimal processing
              parameters to yield microstructures that provide the best mechanical
              properties. Three groups of problems of scientific and engineering interest for
              advanced materials will be addressed. The first group, related to mechanisms
              controlling coherent decomposition in cubic systems with several structural
              variants of ordered intermetallics, includes investigating the formation of
              coherent two-phase microstructures with a very complex morphology (e.g., the
              chessboard microstructure in Co-Pt and other alloys) via precipitation of
              multi-variant ordered intermetallics from a transient congruently ordered
              phase, and investigating the formation of a multi-phase coherent microstructure
              involving more than two phases. The second group of problems involves the
              response of the martensite to applied stress in crystallographically and
              elastically inhomogeneous systems. This group includes the study of martensitic
              transformations involving dislocation plasticity. Stress-accommodating
              dislocations drastically affect the morphology of martensitic crystals; they
              are responsible for irreversible plastic deformation, which are detrimental to
              the Shape Memory Effect. The study of stress-induced martensitic transformation
              generated by advancing cracks in transforming inclusions is also included in
              this group. Of particular interest is the heterogeneous nucleation of the
              martensite followed by the rearrangement of its domains in the crack tip zones
              as well as the effect of this rearrangement on the development of the crack
              system. The corresponding stress-strain curve will be simulated. The third
              group of problems involves coherent diffusional and martensitic phase
              transformations near free surfaces. The study of these phenomena becomes
              possible because of the availability of a new theoretical approach developed
              with NSF support. Effective software that will enable realistic simulations of
              multiple processes simultaneously occurring in complex materials systems will
              be developed. The code will be distributed to researchers in the field.  The
              galleries of virtual experiments, simulation animations and movies will be
              collected for public education in materials science and engineering. This
              activity will also enable more students to participate in advanced
              interdisciplinary research.  There are additional broader impacts in the
              education of undergraduate and graduate students.
%%%
This award supports
              theoretical and computational research and education on the evolution of
              strain-generating complex structures formed in diffusional and diffusionless
              transformations as well as of the evolution of defects, e.g. dislocations and
              cracks, formed in plastic deformation and fracture. The Phase Field
              Microelasticity model developed by the PI together with 3-dimensional computer
              simulations will be used to investigate complex microstructures to elucidate
              the mechanisms controlling their evolution in technologically important
              systems. Microstructure plays an important role in determining mechanical
              properties of materials and in materials processing. Research focuses on three
              problem areas: The first is related to mechanisms controlling coherent
              decomposition in cubic systems with several structural variants of ordered
              intermetallics; The second is related to the response of martensite to applied
              stress in crystallographically and elastically inhomogeneous systems; The third
              involves coherent diffusional and martensitic phase transformations near free
              surfaces. Effective software that will enable realistic simulations of multiple
              processes simultaneously occurring in complex materials systems will be
              developed. The code will be distributed to researchers in the field.  The
              galleries of virtual experiments, simulation animations and movies will be
              collected for public education in materials science and engineering. This
              activity will also enable more students to participate in advanced
              interdisciplinary research.  There are additional broader impacts in the
              education of undergraduate and graduate students.
***

