              0116047
Pidaparti
Structural materials of the 21st century will have to meet
              increasingly demanding standards for performance and life. The strength and
              integrity of a structural component deteriorates mainly due to corrosion and
              fatigue along with other failure mechanisms in structural materials. Among
              various aspects of corrosion, pitting corrosion is a complex process, and is a
              major problem in many engineering industries. Pitting corrosion mechanism
              usually initiate at the micro/nano-structure level and the details of the
              mechanisms depend on the material composition, electrolyte and other
              environmental conditions. Even though much effort has been put into assessing
              the material loss due to corrosion over the years, the mechanical
              characteristics and its relationship at multiple levels due to pitting
              corrosion are not yet known. The material loss information along with the
              topology and its relationship at various material scales are necessary for
              better understanding and designing of corrosion resistant materials.

The
              objective of the proposed research is to develop a three-dimensional corrosion
              growth model to aid in the assessment and design of materials and their effect
              on structural integrity. Corrosion growth model will be developed as a discrete
              dynamical system based on cellular automata approach. This approach
              incorporates both macroscopic (corrosion pit distribution and the material
              loss) and microscopic (chemical interaction mechanisms) scales of the corrosion
              process into the model. Mechanisms involving both physical and mechanistic
              basis will be used to obtain rules in developing corrosion growth models. The
              developed models will be tested and validated using real data by collaborating
              with Naval Surface Warfare Center, CRANE division, Indiana, and with the data
              obtained from Raytheon Systems Company, Texas. A three-dimensional
              visualization software will be developed to visualize the corrosion growth data
              in real time to see the corrosion growth process. Algorithms developed through
              this project will be directly used in materials and simulation courses in
              Engineering and Computer Science disciplines.

The proposed research will
              greatly help to understand the corrosion growth process in materials. The 3D 
              visualization capability will provide insight into better understanding of the
              characteristics of corrosion growth process, and may lead to the development of
              more efficient corrosion growth and prediction algorithms. A fundamental
              understanding of the macro- and micro-level corrosion growth models based on
              local rules will provide valuable information and tools for designing corrosion
              resistant materials for a variety of engineering applications. The proposed
              approach will provide a general solution to structural corrosion in materials
              so that it can be scaled up to other structural materials.


