              This research aims at developing empirically based dynamic general equi-librium
              models for analyzing monetary policy based on evidence both from the U.S. and
              from countries that have experienced currency crises. The research agenda can
              be divided into two general topics: (i) understanding the link between monetary
              policy and private sector outcomes in the US. and (ii) understanding the links
              between government policy and currency crises in emerging markets.

Projects
              under the first topic involve constructing and estimating models that can
              account quantitatively for the key facts about the US monetary transmission
              mechanism. The models investigated have four key- characteristics. First. they
              embody complementary sources of monetary non-neutrality steming from frictions
              in good, labor and asset markets. Second. they embody modifications to the real
              side of standard business cycle models. These modifications play a key role in
              the analysis because they help render the models consistent with the fact that
              marginal production costs are only mildly procyclical. Third, the models are
              designed so that individual agents, taking as given economy-wide variables,
              have only small incentives to overcome the nominal frictions in their
              environment. Nevertheless nominal frictions have a first order effect on the
              economy.  Fourth. the models are empirically tractable and can be formally
              investigated using econometric methods.  Preliminary evidence from a simple
              version of the model, embodying modest nominal rigidities, is capable of
              generating persistent real effects from monetary shocks consistent with those
              identified in the data. In addition. the model can account for the inertial
              behavior of inflation and real wages. Much of this research is joint research
              with Lawrence Christiano (Northwestern University) and Charles Evans (Federal
              Reserve Bank of Chicago).

The second topic consists of three projects aimed
              at under-standing the causes and consequences of currency crises. The unifying
              theme between the projects is the link between government policies, the
              fragility of financial systems and currency crises. The first project explores
              why governments with similar sized prospective deficits, stemming from failing
              financial systems, experience exchange rate crises of different magnitudes and
              different post-crises inflation rates. The key observation here is that
              governments differ in the extent to which their lia-bilities are indexed to
              inflation. The inflation that follows a currency devaluation acts like a
              partial fiscal reform, effectively providing a government with a source of
              revenue other than seignorage. Ex ante heterogeneity regarding non-indexed
              liabilities leads to ex post heterogeneity with respect to monetary policy and
              inflation. In addition, the research also explores why reported inflation is so
              much lower than the rate of exchange rate devaluation in the wake of many
              currency crises. The second project examines the relationship between
              government guarantees, the sectoral composition of bank lending and banks'
              hedging activities. It analyzes the impact of government guarantees on the
              exposure of banking systems to real shocks and the corresponding fragility of
              fixed exchange rate regimes. The third project investigates why governments
              extend guarantees to banks' foreign creditors in developing countries. Much of
              the research in this section of the proposal is joint with Sergio Rebelo
              (Northwestern University) and Craig Burnside (World Bank).

