                  The investigator and his colleague study ways to break
intractability of
              algorithms for high-dimensional problems.  They
focus on high-dimensional
              integration, explore  breaking
intractability either by settling for a
              stochastic assurance of
small error or by using additional domain knowledge,
              and further
develop FinDer, a software package for
              high-dimensional
integration.
     The computational complexity of an
              algorithm is a measure of
the amount of work the algorithm must perform to
              produce a
solution for given inputs.  Usually the complexity is measured
              in
the size of the problem being solved.  For example, finding the
solution
              of a linear matrix equation in N unknowns --- an
N-dimsional problem ---
              generally takes on the order of N times N
times N arithmetic operations; the
              computational complexity of
such an algorithm is N cubed.  There is huge
              interest in solving
high-dimensional problems.  Many applications involve
              functions
of hundreds, thousands, and even an infinite number of
              variables.
Examples occur in physics, chemistry, mathematical science,
              and
economics.  These problems must usually be solved numerically and
one has
              to settle for an approximate numerical solution to within
an error epsilon. 
              If a worst case deterministic assurance of an
epsilon approximation is
              desired, then the computational
complexity usually depends exponentially on
              the number of
variables; the problem is said to be intractible. 
              The
investigators study breaking intractability either by settling
for a
              stochastic assurance of small error or by using additional
domain knowledge. 
              The use of formalizing additional domain
knowledge is a powerful new idea.  In
              particular, the
investigators study under what conditions a double win
              is
achievable for the important problem of high-dimensional
integration: when
              does an algorithm to compute the value of a
high-dimensional integral both
              converge faster than a Monte Carlo
algorithm and do so with a worst case
              deterministic assurance?
They apply the theoretical results to improve the
              FinDer software
system for computing high-dimensional integrals.  This
              new
paradigm is applied to other problems of computational
mathematics.
