              This proposal was submitted in response to the solicitation NSF 01-65 on
              "Ultra-High Capacity Optical Communications and Networking." This proposal
              deals with an innovative liquid space optical switching (LISOS) method based on
              surface-tension-driven microfluidics. The final goal of this research targets
              ultra high capacity, e.g., 1024x1024, optical cross connect switching systems.
              Some of the featured aspects of performance include fast switching time (~
              100s), low insertion loss (~ 0.2 dB), low crosstalk (~ 40dB), low power
              consumption (~ 10W per switch), inherent latching function (i.e., no continuous
              power), and reversible switching action. This technology will enable next
              generation ultra high-speed optical communication at a very low cost.
As the
              signal traffic for optical fiber communication rapidly increases, all-optical
              switching technology without opto-electronic conversion is considered the
              ultimate goal. The conventional switching scheme using
              optical-electrical-optical signal conversion simply cannot follow the high
              signal rate (e.g., GHz - THz range) requirement for next generation network
              communication. The use of micromachined mirrors for the direct switching of
              light signals, which eliminates the signal conversion process, has been a major
              alternative to the conventional approach. However, the extension of the
              micromirror approach to ultra high capacity optical cross connect is facing the
              fundamental limits in loss characteristics and manufacturing costs (labor and
              time). The use of thermal-bubble-actuated index matching liquid has been
              recently proposed as an alternative to the micromirror-based approach. The
              actuation characteristic, however, is not desirable due to large, continuous
              power requirement. Furthermore, the thermal stability requirement of the liquid
              restricts the choices of optically optimum working liquids.
In this research,
              surface tension - a dominant force in microscale fluid motion - is proposed as
              an actuation mechanism for LISOS. The novel electrical and mechanical control
              of surface tension (Electrowetting and Mechanical Wetting) are used as
              microactuation mechanisms with extremely low power consumption, reliable
              operation, and high speed actuation. The proposed team, combining microfluidics
              technology with the photonics capability, will design, fabricate, and test a
              surface-tension-driven LISOS system (SLISOS) suitable to the high volume, high
              speed requirement of the emerging optical communication requirements with the
              aforementioned performance.

