              This proposal was submitted in response to the solicitation NSF 01-65 on
              "Ultra-High Capacity Optical Communications and Networking." In this proposed
              research project, we study methods to achieve ultra-broadband gain materials
              for broadband optical communications and networking. Broadband materials with a
              gain profile of more than 500 nm wide are possible to be achieved in a single
              thin-film waveguide device. The materials include the Esaki-junction type of
              multi-band multi-quantum well gain material and the selective-area-growth (SAG)
              type broadband gain material. With the proposed methods, a
              multiple-quantum-well (MQW) material with a very broad and smooth gain profile
              of more than 250 nm has been obtained. Using the fabricated material,
              semiconductor lasers with a very wide tuning range of more than 200 nm and
              wavelength converters that can convert signals across 250 nm wavelength range,
              from 1550 nm to 1300 nm, have been demonstrated. In this research work, we will
              try to understand the limitations of these proposed methods and explore
              techniques to overcome them. It is highly possible to extend the full
              operational wavelength range from 1150 nm to 1700 nm. More than 500 nm
              bandwidth all optical operations of amplifying, switching, and wavelength
              conversions are targeted to be accomplished.
The issues of using semiconductor
              optical amplifiers (SOAs) as an amplifying material have been their fast gain
              recovery time. The fast gain recovery time, caused by the short carrier
              lifetime, produces problems like high channel-crosstalk in a WDM system and
              high amplified-spontaneous-emission (ASE) noise. In the proposed research work
              we will study methods to increase carrier lifetime in a broadband SOA. In our
              previous work, we have grown quasi-indirect bandgap superlattice materials and
              observed materials changing from direct to indirect bandgaps when the
              superlattice period is varying. It is highly possible to change the carrier
              lifetime from the nanosecond scale to the microsecond scale with the
              quasi-indirect bandgap material. We have also grown the 1550 nm InGaAsP type II
              delta-doping gain material. We expect such a material will have a longer
              carrier lifetime due to the spatial separation of electrons and holes in the
              material.
By combining the broadband gain material and the long carrier
              lifetime material techniques, it is highly possible we can obtain an ideal gain
              material with noise and crosstalk performance similar to the Er doped fiber
              amplifier (EDFA) but with an extremely broad wavelength-operation range of
              larger than 500 nm. Such a material can also be integrated with other thin-film
              waveguide optical components to obtain multiple-function integrated photonic
              devices. We believe this work will have a significant impact to the
              ultra-broadband optical communications.


