              
	Microbial ectoenzyme activities in aquatic environments are important agents
              of polymer hydrolysis and indicators of the state of microbial carbon,
              nitrogen, or phosphorus nutrition.   Alkaline phosphatase, in particular, is a
              good indicator of phosphorus limitation.   However, like most other biochemical
              and molecular measurements, ectoenzyme activities, including alkaline
              phosphatase, have been limited to discreet water samples.  We have developed a
              continuous underway method for measuring alkaline phosphatase and other
              microbial enzyme activities using high-sensitivity fluorescent substrates. 
              This method has been successfully employed to map surface alkaline phosphatase
              activity in a limited area of the Mississippi River plume and the Louisiana
              shelf, the area where phosphorus limitation is likely to be most
              intense.
	This proposed study will use an improved automated enzyme
              measurement system for extensive seasonal mapping of surface water alkaline
              phosphatase activity in the Mississippi plume and along the Louisiana coast. 
              This system will be coupled with continuous underway measurements of
              temperature, salinity, in vivo fluorescence and other parameters provided by
              the ship.  This work will be conducted in conjunction with a previously-funded
              comprehensive process study of nitrogen, phosphorus, and silica limitation in
              this area to be conducted by Quay Dortch and David Nelson.  The seasonal
              alkaline phosphatase mapping will provide important
information on the spatial
              and temporal extent of phosphorus limitation, which will aid in the  selection
              of stations for detailed nutrient enrichment experiments by Dortch and Nelson. 
              These nutrient enrichment experiments, in turn, will supply detailed
              information on the response of the community to nutrient enrichment, which will
              help in the interpretation of the mapping data.  Additional alkaline
              phosphatase measurements will be made on samples from the nutrient  enrichment
              experiments to help in the interpretation of their physiological status.

