              The Urban Systemic Program for the San Diego Unified School District (SDUSD)
              aggressively targets the academic success of all students in K-12 mathematics
              and science through a comprehensive program of support for improved
              instruction. The San Diego Urban Systemic Program (SDUSP) engages the public
              and private sector community in building an infrastructure that will support
              quality mathematics and science education over the long term. 
The goals of
              the SDUSP are:
1. Substantial improvement in student achievement in the fields
              of science and mathematics.
2. Substantial improvement of the quality of
              instruction in science and mathematics.
3. System-wide implementation of high
              quality standards-based inquiry learning in science and mathematics using
              exemplary curriculum materials and technology tools.
4. Ongoing collaboration
              to improve teacher education and the district's science and mathematics
              programs through well-defined partnerships among the school district, the
              universities, educational centers, and the private sector.
The San Diego Urban
              Systemic Program (SDUSP) builds leadership in every school by engaging
              principals and enhanced department chairs in understanding the content,
              pedagogy and curriculum of standards-based reform, and in supporting the
              classroom teacher and monitoring results. The teacher in every classroom
              receives exemplary curriculum materials, substantial professional development,
              and job-embedded coaching. 
The students in each science and mathematics class
              receive instruction that is pedagogically sound and content rich, with clear
              course expectations, standards-based materials, and the integrated use of
              technology. The end result is that each student is equipped with the
              mathematical and scientific knowledge, skills, and dispositions to make their
              own choices regarding post-secondary pursuits. 


