              0108305
Hanna

Description:  This award is to support a collaborative project
              between Dr. Adel Hanna, Manager, Environmental Research at MCNC, Raleigh, North
              Carolina and Dr. Mohamed El-Shahawy, Astronomy and Meteorology Department,
              Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.  The goal of this research is to provide a
              clear understanding of the multiple and complex processes that contribute to
              air pollution episodes in Egypt. They will pursue two objectives: (1) evaluate
              meteorological conditions during the fall season (September, October, November)
              by analyzing ten years' worth of data (1990-1999), with special emphasis on the
              air pollution episode of October-November 1999; and (2) characterize the role
              of biomass burning in aggravating air pollution episodes over Cairo and
              adjacent cities in Egypt. During the last week of October 1999 and continuing
              for a period of two to three weeks, Cairo, and cities to the north along the
              Nile Delta were exposed to especially high levels of a number of air
              pollutants. The incident has drawn attention to the problem of biomass burning
              and other anthropogenic emission sources in the Nile Delta and greater Cairo
              area.  This study will improve our ability to predict air pollution episodes,
              thus allowing people with various health problems to avoid certain activities
              during high-pollution periods. It will also improve our understanding of the
              roles played by emissions, location, terrain, and meteorological conditions in
              aggravating air pollution conditions.

Scope: The project supports
              collaboration between two investigators, with excellent qualifications both by
              training, experience and knowledge of the situation they will be studying, to
              carry out this research. With the meteorological data and the emissions
              scenario, the PIs plan to use a comprehensive air quality model that has been
              applied to numerous geographic locations in North America.  The application in
              Egypt will provide insight into any limitations in the use of the air quality
              model.  This is particularly important, as global air quality models should be
              in agreement with regional and local models.  The proposed activity should also
              lead to improvements in the air quality model by including new types of
              environments different from those for which the air quality model was initially
              developed, such as biomass burning, which is likely to be a leading contributor
              to the air pollution. This activity strongly supports the adaptation and
              transfer of technology in protecting the air quality and health of the citizens
              of Egypt, and will provide a process for extension to other locations as well. 
              A US graduate student will participate in this project and will gain experience
              in international scientific collaboration. The proposal meets INT objectives in
              supporting collaborative research in areas of mutual interest, and where there
              are potential societal benefits.  This project is being supported under the
              US-Egypt Joint Fund Program, which provides grants to scientists and engineers
              in both countries to carry out these cooperative activities.
