              0211267
Hashsham

Description:
This award is for support of a joint research
              project by Dr. Syed Hashsham, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil and
              Environmental Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan
              and Dr. Essam Zaki, Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology Research Institute
              (GEBRI), Mubarak City of Scientific Research, Alexandria, Egypt.  They plan to
              develop a microbial diversity microarray that will encompass the key elements
              of microbial biodiversity in both functional and phylogenetic sense. There is a
              need for such a comprehensive microarray in areas such as diagnostics, air,
              water, food, animal, and plant safety, soil and root ecology, and waste
              treatment.  Approximately 1,000 oligonucleotide probes will be designed using
              available sequences in existing phylogenetic and structural gene databases. 
              For selected organisms and functions, probes will also be designed to detect
              single nucleotide polymorphisms and to differentiate among strains relevant to
              human health.   Additional probes targeting large phylogenetic and functional
              groups in a nested manner will also be included. This latter set of probes will
              be helpful in exploring the extant of the uncultured microbial world.
              Specificity and sensitivity of gene probes, and quantification of molecular
              data will be the three key aspects of this work. The potential of the array
              will be evaluated in describing and differentiating biodiversity of water
              bodies of different level of perturbation such as the Nile River, Lake Michigan
              and remote springs at Yellowstone National Park.  Hypotheses related to
              stability of microbial communities in response to perturbations will be tested,
              and links between stability and biodiversity will be
              evaluated.

Scope:
Studies of the genetic composition and ecology of native
              bacterial populations have been constrained by their dependence on
              culture-based methods.  Several mixed microbial communities have been analyzed
              by various molecular methods. These methods are generally non- quantitative,
              may differentiate only 20-30 populations, may only give a coarse pattern of
              fingerprint (instead of diversity), and may not give any functional
              information. The proposed development may lead to the broader application of
              the microarray technology in the future.  It is expected that a transfer of
              microarray technology to Egypt will be accomplished, leading to potential use
              in local applications.  Dr. Hashsham's work in sites in Egypt will expand the
              environments for testing of the microbial diversity array.  The project will
              give graduate students of Dr. Hashsham, who are supported from other sources,
              an opportunity to engage in international research collaboration.  This
              collaborative project will help the career of Dr. Hashsham, who is a recent
              Ph.D. graduate, and will help enhance Egypt's research in the area of
              biodiversity. 

