              00899807
Glebov

This three-year award for U.S.-France cooperative research
              in optical materials for high-power lasers involves Leonid B. Glebov and Oleg
              M. Efrimov of the University of Central Florida and Dr. Laurent Sarger of the
              Unviersity of Bordeaux I and the Center for Molecular, Optical and Oscillation
              Physics.  The proposal addresses problems related to the selffocusing of laser
              beams that result in damage to the laser's optical components.  One of the most
              important parameters of optical materials used in multi-channel laser systems
              is the nonlinear refractive index (n2), which drives the selffocusing process. 
              Materials, which have low n2 values, such as fused silica, may reduce damage
              during
laser beam transport and focusing. In this collaboration the
              investigators will compare the nonlinear refractive index for samples of fused
              silica fabricated with different technologies and the linear optical and
              spectral properties of the samples. They will also determine the features of
              linear and nonlinear optical properties fluctuations.  The project takes
              advantage of US and French complementary expertise in the fields of linear and
              nonlinear optical properties, laser-induced breakdown, structure, and
              technology of silicate glasses.  The joint efforts will advance understanding
              of the principle of high quality fused silica selection for optical components
              in multi-channel high-power laser systems.
 
This award represents the US
              side of a joint proposal to the NSF and the French National Center for
              Scientific Research (CNRS).  NSF will cover the expenses of visits of US
              investigators. The CNRS will support the visits of French researchers to the
              United States.

