              0089657
Morava

This award supports the participation of American scientists
              in a U.S.-Japan seminar on quantum geometry in dimensions 2 and 4, to be held
              at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore from March 18-24, 2002.  The
              co-organizers are professors Jack Morava of the Johns Hopkins University and
              Professor Shigeyuki Morita of the Tokyo University in Japan.  These are two of
              the most vital and rapidly developing subjects in mathematics.  
Mathematical
              physicists are conscious of deep similarities between two and four-dimensional
              quantum field theories, but although mathematical research in two and
              four-dimensional geometry has been strongly affected by ideas from physics,
              these fields have separate roots and separate histories.  In dimension two,
              classification is easy, and research is concerned with families of objects.  In
              dimension four classification is difficult, and the construction of new tools
              to study that topic is very active.  

For historical reasons, research on
              (families of) two-manifolds has been dominated by ideas from algebraic
              geometry; but while ideas from the theory of algebraic surfaces have had great
              impact in four-mainfold theory, the deeper developments there have been based
              on techniques from nonlinear analysis and gauge theory.  The population of
              researchers interested in these subjects is thus sociologically very diverse. 
              However, the two fields share common foundations in topology, and by keeping
              these fundamental issues in focus, the organizers hope for a broadly accessible
              program of deep interest.  Seminar organizers have made a special effort to
              involve younger researchers and graduate students as both participants and
              observers.  The exchange of ideas and data with Japanese experts in this field
              will enable U.S. participants to advance their own work, and will set the stage
              for future collaborative projects.  Dissemination of information on the seminar
              will be available on the World Wide Web.

