              By their nature, volumetric data sets, such as  CT, MRI and the Visible Human
              cryosection 
images,  are  not  subject  to  the  same  form  of  visual 
              inspection and  cognitive  refinement  that 
human experts apply when viewing
              and interpreting 2D images. 
The internal cycle of choices made by humans as
              they  visually survey  an image is disrupted and
forced into an external
              process where users must adapt to the technical requirements of
              the
visualization system. This project proposes to continue research into an
              immersive visualization
system that is a first step toward  creating  a  user 
              interaction  paradigm  that  more  naturally
allows  users  to  apply  their
              interpretive  expertise  to  the  visualization  and  segmentation 
              of
volumetric  data  sets.  In  this environment, segmentation, the process of
              isolating discrete structures within a data volume, is performed in parallel
              with visualization. Users have continuous control of the visualization and
              segmentation algorithms and can freely exercise their expert
interpretive
              knowledge. 
 
The current implementation, called the  Immersive Segmentation
              Environment, emphasizes the 
controlled application of high computational cost
              algorithms to local regions of the data volume. 
Using  stereo  graphics,  the
               user  is  presented  with  the  illusion that  the  data  volume  occupies
              
physical space. The user interacts with the system using a 3D space tracked
              probe. Visualization 
and segmentation algorithms continuously operate on the
              data volume within a local 
neighborhood of the user.s position. This
              neighborhood corresponds to the user.s visual focus 
point. The algorithms
              initialize themselves based upon an analysis of the local neighborhood and
              
heuristics. The system is implemented as a client/server application and
              consequently allows a 
user  at  a  low-cost  workstation  to  effectively 
              use  remote computational  resources  to visualize 
large volumetric data
              sets. The system implements two main classes of segmentation algorithms. 
Both
              determine initial algorithm parameters based upon a cluster analysis of the
              local neighborhood and are characterized by an iterative refinement approach.
              
 
The proposed research will continue to investigate the capabilities of
              this unique user interaction 
model for visualizing, exploring and
              interpreting volumetric data sets. 

The research plan contained in this
              proposal is a natural outgrowth of prior work performed by 
the PI. This
              ongoing work has had a positive impact on the curriculum, student research
              projects 
and faculty research within the Computer Science department at the
              UW-La Crosse. 


