              In order to understand large vector fields, scientists typically attempt to
              simplify and visualize the data. Broadly speaking, there are two methods for
              visualizing vector field feature extraction techniques and general
              visualization techniques, that  offer complementary advantages. 
Feature based
              techniques extract important features such as topology (critical point and
              critical curves), attachment or separation lines, vortices, bifurcations or
              shock waves, and attempt to present a simplified view of the vector
              field.
There are two main dificulties with this approach. First, too many
              features may clutter the visualization. Therefore, there is a need to prune
              spurious and insignificant features.
Second, feature visualization alone may
              fail to provide a comprehensive view of the data. This can be remedied by using
              popular general visualization techniques such as streamlines, line integral
              convolution (LIC), and stream surfaces.
However, most attempts using this
              approach destroy the underlying important features early in the
simplification
              or compression approach, as we have demonstrated in our preliminary work.
              Therefore,
there is a need to tie the feature simplification process with the
              simplification of the underlying vector field in order to produce consistent
              visualization.
In this work, we propose to develop controlled feature
              simplification and preservation algorithms
for 2D vector fields that remove
              insignificant  features and preserve important ones by removing noise and by
              utilizing feature-driven similarity metrics to measure and control the
              simplification
process.
The proposed algorithms will simplify the features
              and the underlying vector field simulatneously
in order to produce consistent
              visualization. We will extend these algorithms to 3D and  ime-dependent vector
              fields. Additional challenges include: (i) designing efficient algorithms and
              structure-similarity metrics based on the properties of more complex 3D
              features such as the 3D separation and attachement lines, vortices and shock
              wave regions, and (ii) tracking simplied features over time as bifurcations may
              take place. We will also quantify and visualize the uncertainty or loss due to
              simplification in order to give a better sense to the scientist as to what is
              lost or compromised during the simplification process.
We will apply our
              algorithms to computational fluid dynamics and environmental data. We expect
              that the algorithms and techniques developed in this project will be applicable
              to a wide variety of disciplines including aeronautics, meteorology,
              oceanography, environmental sciences, astronomy, geographic information
              sciences, computer graphics, and computer-aided geometric design.


