              Smith
0071937
     The investigator studies the mechanisms responsible for
              the
generation of slow, large-scale motions from fast, small-scale
motions in
              stratified turbulence and rotating, stratified
turbulence.  Because the
              earth's atmosphere and oceans are
stratified fluids in a rotating frame, the
              work is highly
relevant to geophysical applications.  Many aspects
              of
wave-turbulence interactions are yet to be understood.  For
example, it is
              not clear if, when and how small-scale 3D
turbulence in the presence of waves
              can organize into large-scale
coherent structures (as in 2D flows).  In purely
              rotating flow,
the investigator previously showed that white-noise forcing
              at
small scales leads to the generation of slow, large-scale,
cyclonic
              vortical columns, if the Rossby number is below a
critical value of order one.
               This is surprising because recent
work using multiple scales analysis shows,
              at first order,
decoupling between fast, small-scale motions and
              slow,
large-scale motions for a variety of wave-turbulence systems
including
              rotating flow.  Several second-order mechanisms may be
responsible for the
              upscale energy transfer to slow modes in
rotating turbulence.  This project
              goes a step further towards
understanding the large-scale dynamics in
              geophysical flows, by
investigation of upscale energy transfer in 3D
              stratified and
rotating, stratified turbulence.  The investigator explores
              the
necessary conditions leading to such upscale transfer and seeks
to
              identify the underlying mechanisms.  Simplified systems of
dispersive wave
              turbulence are used to test understanding and for
the development of
              statistical models.  To complement numerical
simulations and analysis, she has
              also planned laboratory
experiments in a rotating tank, where the turbulence
              is driven by
differentially-rotating, rough top and bottom plates.
     Over
              relatively short time periods in rotating and/or
stratified flows, there is
              both experimental evidence and
mathematical support for the decoupling of
              slow, large-scale
motions from fast, small-scale motions.  This means that, on
              time
scales of perhaps days in the atmosphere and weeks in the
              oceans,
large-scale eddies and currents evolve independently from
small-scale
              turbulence.  Another implication is that short-term
climate change is
              independent from rapid fluctuations of the
conditions in the atmosphere and
              oceans.  Our numerical
simulations for longer times, however, show the
              generation of
large-scale, coherent structures from small-scale turbulence,
              and
this coupling may be important for long-term weather prediction,
ocean
              circulaton and climate change.  In the context of the
atmosphere, one might
              ask, can small-scale cumulus convection at
length scales of about ten
              kilometers generate large-scale eddies
of several thousand kilometers in
              extent?  The transfer of energy
from fast, small-scale motions to slow,
              large-scale motions in
three-dimensional, wave-turbulence systems such as
              rotating and
stratified flows has only recently been discovered, even
              though
such transfer has been studied for decades in two-dimensional
flows. 
              The present study involves numerical simulations, modeling
and analysis, and
              laboratory experiments in a rotating tank.  The
goals are to deepen our
              understanding and improve our capability
to predict geophysical phenomena.

