              The main objects of investigation of this project are weak Hopf algebras
(also
              called quantum groupoids in literature). These are group-like 
objects that
              generalize both Hopf algebras and usual groupoids and that 
appear naturally
              in the theory of semisimple tensor rigid (fusion) categories, 
conformal field
              theory, symmetries of algebra extensions, and the quantum 
dynamical
              Yang-Baxter equation. The investigator develops the general 
theory of weak
              Hopf algebras and their representations and applies it to 
the study and
              classification of fusion categories (every such a category is
equaivalent to
              the representation category of a semisimple weak Hopf algebra).
One goal is to
              extend the results known for the representation categories of
ordinary
              semisimple Hopf algebras, such as e.g., Larson-Radford theorems, 
Stefan's
              finiteness result (Ocneanu's rigidity), and Class Equation to
              general
semisimple tensor categories. Another goal is to use weak Hopf
              algebra
techniques to reveal the structure of modular categories which are
              important
because of  their applications to physics and geometry. The
              investigator
also studies weak Hopf algebras arising from dynamical twists
              (these twists 
give rise to solutions of the quantum dynamical Yang-Baxter
              equation of Felder). 
The goal here is to get a conceptual explanation of new
              intriguing phenomena 
related to dynamical twists,  such as, e.g.,
              non-minimizable  dynamical twists 
in group algebras and self-duality of
              dynamical quantum groups.

In this proposal the investigator studies problems
              of the theory  of quantum groups. 
The origins of this theory which was
              created in 1980s are the classical theory of
groups and  quantum physics. The
              theory of groups is the classical mathematical
subject that describes in
              mathematical terms the phenomenon of symmetry
(e.g., groups describe the
              symmetry of molecular structure). Groups are fundamental
objects as they
              provide a universal language used in all areas of mathematics.
The quantum
              theory reveals the laws of physics that determine the behavior 
of very small
              particles and interactions between them.  This theory led to
              many
technological advances of the 20th century such as, e.g., development of
              the
nuclear physics. In order to give an adequate mathematical  description of
               
the structure  of quantum physical systems the theory of classical groups
              
is not sufficient, this is why the new theory of quantum groups was invented.
              
Among these  new objects the notions of weak Hopf algebras and quantum
              
groupoids are of special interest, as they have recently seen many
              applications 
on both sides of the mathematics-physics divide.  The present
              proposal is devoted 
to the study and classification of weak Hopf algebras and
              exploring their applications 
to various  areas of  mathematics and physics. 
