              Engineering - Civil (54)
Our team at the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke
              University has previously developed and documented a prototype web-based
              instructional system for solid mechanics. Our basic goal has been to promote an
              inquiry-based style of modern engineering analysis, experimentation, and design
              into undergraduate solid and fluid mechanics courses. A central effort of our
              team's work has been the design and evaluation of a modular and portable
              framework so that faculty can create a diverse set of experiments based on our
              web- based model. To help guide faculty toward adoption of our model a workbook
              and accompanying CD-ROM is being published.

Through our project Web-based
              Educational Framework for Analysis, Visualization, and Experimentation (WEAVE)
              faculty will have the option of complimenting traditional labs with
              module-based projects designed to encourage students to compare, contrast, and
              improve models of actual physical experiments. An interactive web-based
              tutorial for each module will be developed in conjunction with Shodor, a
              non-profit educational research foundation based in Durham, N.C. The deployment
              of WEAVE across the engineering curriculum enables students to follow
              interactive tutorials, execute numerical simulations, and conduct physical
              experiments. In these self-paced labs, students explore concepts of fluid and
              solid mechanics through trial and error iterations by directly controlling and
              modifying the physical experiments and their associated numerical simulation.
              The dissemination of our materials and findings has been promoted on our
              campus, and at the state and national levels through oral presentations,
              publications in educational journals, and via the Internet. We also plan to
              present at the Frontiers in Education in 2003.

