              0244104
BERNARD

This project will make it possible for anthropological
              researchers to collect data, over the Internet, using the Educara Survey
              system. The system includes methods from cognitive science including the
              collection of free lists, pile sorts, paired comparisons, triad tests, and
              frame substitutions. With the new system created in this project people will
              interact, online, from anywhere in the world, with a set of cards that they see
              laid out on the screen, and move the cards, with a mouse, into piles, just as
              they would in a face-to-face pile sort task. The system being developed in this
              research also builds Internet-based surveys. For example, a researcher gives
              the system a list of items for a pile sort and the system builds a pile sort
              module. People who are logged onto the Internet see a screen with the pile sort
              items arranged randomly and move the cards into piles, just as they would in a
              face-to- face pile sort. The system records the information and produces data
              that can be read by standard programs for analysis. 
Broader
              Impacts
Typically, research done with the tools in the new system is done with
              a small number of respondents. With the Internet-based tools, scholars across
              the social sciences (including basic researchers in anthropology, sociology,
              and social psychology, as well as applied researchers in marketing, nursing,
              and education) will be able to use the new system for studies with respondents
              around the world. 
The system will also make teaching and practicing these
              methods much easier. With computer-based instruction, it will be possible to
              teach the full range of qualitative and quantitative research methods to
              students anywhere in the world. 


