              Park Jeffrey J.
EAR-0106867

Abstract for proposal EAR0106867 (PH #
              33x)

Title: Wedge Issues: Seismic Anisotropy, Structural Geology and
              Upper-Mantle Dynamics in Subduction Zones

PI's: Jeffrey Park and Vadim
              Levin, Yale University

Plate tectonics is driven largely by the sinking of
              oceanic plates at the deep-ocean trenches of subduction zones, the most common
              type of convergent boundary between distinct plates. The mantle "wedge" lies
              between the overriding and the sinking plates at a subduction zone, a buried
              strip of olivine-rich rock typically 100-200-km thick and 100-400-km wide. The
              chemistry and dynamics of the mantle wedge determine arc volcanism, a major
              "product" of the plate-tectonics heat engine. The mantle wedge also influences
              the accretion of continents, which can grow by the successive accumulation of
              volcanic arcs. Geologists can track the descending plate in a subduction zone
              by the locations of deep-focus earthquakes, but have had less success tracking
              the motion of the mantle "wedge." Theoretical models for wedge flow differ
              between (1) a 2-D "corner flow" driven by shear-coupling to the descending
              plate, (2) a stagnant wedge that is already transforming to a stable
              "continental" plate, (3) trench-parallel flow induced by 3-D geometric effects,
              such as the rollback of the sinking oceanic plate. This project will detect
              sheared rock in the mantle wedge, deformed by its flow, by using seismic
              indicators of elastic anisotropy in the sheared rock. These seismic indicators
              include shear-wave birefringence, and the partial conversion of P waves
              (compressional) to S waves (shear) in seismograms from distant earthquakes.
              Preliminary results suggest that strong trench-parallel shear can develop at
              the top of the subducting plate, and that changes in rock fabric exist and are
              detectable within the mantle wedge itself.

