              
Curricular documents recently published by both the National Academy of
              Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science place at
              the core of science education.  However, recommendations for K-3 science
              curricula reflect considerable distance from this ideal, as a result of
              assumptions about primary grade children's development needs."  Science
              educators have derived these assumptions from cognitive developmental stage
              theory.  These constraints have resulted in curricula that poorly reflect the
              rich, goal-focused enterprise of the scientific inquiry.  	

	Fortunately, we
              have grounds to suspect that this way of inferring ceilings on children's
              scientific reasoning may seriously underestimate their capabilities.  As AAAS
              (1993) has noted, "the developmental studies say more about what students...do
              not learn in today's schools than about what they might possibly learn if
              instruction were more effective."  Consideration of the potential impact of
              instruction on children's reasoning abilities is particularly important, given
              the robust research finding that the strength of one's knowledge of a domain
              strongly influences the adequacy of one's reasoning therein.	

	The proposed
              research re-examines the key issue of young children's capabilities and
              limitations in scientific inquiry, from the perspective of what is possible
              given more effective instruction.  Specifically, the research investigates:	
*
              What forms of scientific inquiry are within the reach of K-3 children, given
              effective and substained scaffolding?	
	*What compromises do teachers need to
              make in order to bring scientific inquiry within reach of K-3
              children?	
	*What forms of instructional scaffolding can empower K-3
              children's scientific inquiry, while simultaneously developing their interest
              in science?	

	Analysis of the children's learning will be based on the
              cognitive developmental parameters currently viewed as critical shortcomings in
              primary grade children's scientific cognition:  (a) the theory/evidence
              distinction; (b) the logic of research design and control of variables; and (c)
              hypothetical-deductive thought.  Explanations for why scientific inquiry needs
              to be postponed until the upper elementary school years or later are typically
              framed in terms of children's poor understanding within these spheres.  Given
              the importance of attitude and interest in academic engagement and success, we
              will also assess the impact of the instructional intervention on children's
              attitudes about science and their engagement in the science
              curriculum.	

	Research will be conducted within two instructional
              intervention models.  The systemic change instructional model will examine the
              power and limitations of children's scientific inquiry, under the most optimal
              learning conditions we can engineer.  These conditions include exceptional
              teachers with in-depth professional support, the latitude of fundamentally
              change both the science curriculum and its interface with its interface with
              the mathematics curriculum, availability of the best technological resources to
              support the children's developing knowledge of the domain, their data
              collection and data analysis, etc..  On the basis of their ongoing analysis and
              refinement of this instructional  model, the teacher/researcher team will
              analyze the teacher knowlege that is critical to its effectiveness.  Their aim
              will be to abstract the essential elements of the instructional model and
              subsequently to illustrate and explain this instructional approach in the form
              of two curricular "replacement units" (one in botany and one in animal
              behavior) and a supporting teacher professional development program.  These
              units, in conjunction with the professional development program, will function
              as a strategic instructional modification model.  We will test the
              instructional model and its scalability by studying its impact on two coherts
              of K-3 teachers and their students.  The project's timely re-assessment of
              children's scientifc reasoning capacities and elaboration of new instructional
              prototypes could provide the basis for fundamental improvements in K-3 science
              education

