              0114502
Hudecki

This award supports a series of workshops, to take place in
              April and October 2001 at the National Science Foundation in
              Arlington,Virginia, that will explore best practices for the development and
              management of international research experiences for undergraduate students.  
              Organized by Michael S. Hudecki and Christopher A. Loretz of the State
              University of New York at Buffalo, the workshops bring together directors of
              several NSF-supported international REU (research experiences for
              undergraduates) sites, administrators of study abroad programs, student
              participants, and foreign mentor-supervisors. Their collective experience will
              be described as a reference on "best practices" for managing international
              REUs.  Among the issues to be discussed are: program development, selection of
              research projects and foreign mentors, sustainability, student recruitment,
              management plans, pre-program activities, on-site activities, post program
              activities and program evaluation.  The April workshop will produce a draft
              manual to be tested in summer 2001 by a set of new international site
              directors.  Results from the field  will be reviewed and findings incorporated
              into the final version at a second workshop in October. The manual will be
              available on the Web for public access and downloadable in print
              version.

International undergraduate research programs and sites can promote
              the development of a globally competent science and engineering workforce.  The
              undergraduate level, in fact, may prove to be an ideal time in a research
              career for immersion in an intensive international environment. The reference
              for "best practices" that will be made available to REU directors and the
              broader research community will advance future efforts in international
              undergraduate research and education and ensure that students and faculty
              receive maximum benefit from the experience.  

