              Proposal: DMS-0075477
PI: Yakov eliashberg et al


Abstract:
The program
              ``Low-dimensional contact geometry" is organized jointly
by the American
              Institute of Mathematics (AIM) and the Department
of Mathematics of Stanford
              University.  It will run from
mid-August till mid-December 2000. The program
              will end with a
a Contact Geometry Workshop. The goal of the program is to
              capitalize 
on recent progress in contact geometry. It seems that the time is
              ripe now
for new breakthroughs in the field, and that the concentration of
              both
established and young researchers in contact and symplectic geometry and
              
related areas, as well as participation of several graduate students, may
              
help to produce new remarkable results.  The organizers feel that a
              
coherent picture of contact geometry in 3 dimensions is within reach.
In
              particular,  the participants will try to achieve a complete 
classification
              of contact structures for large classes of 3-manifolds, 
to make further
              advances in the theory of Legendrian and transversal
knots in contact
              3-manifolds, and to establish further properties of contact
3-manifolds which
              serve as boundaries of symplectic 4-manifolds.

Contact geometry was born
              more than two centuries ago in the work of 
Huygens, Hamilton, Jacobi as a
              geometric language for optics. It was 
soon realized that it has applications
              in many other areas, including
non-holonomic mechanics and thermodynamics. One
              encounters contact geometry 
in everyday life when parking a car, skating,
              using a refrigerator, or 
watching the beautiful play of light in a glass of
              water. Sophus Lie, 
Elie Cartan, Darboux and many other great mathematicians
              devoted a lot of 
their work to this subject. However, till very recently most
              of the results 
were of a local nature. With the birth of symplectic and
              contact topology 
in the Eighties, the subject was reborn, and  the last
              decade  witnessed a
number of breakthrough discoveries. There were found new
              important 
interactions with Hamiltonian mechanics, symplectic and
              sub-Riemannian 
geometry, foliation theory, complex geometry and analysis,
              topological 
hydrodynamics, 3-dimensional topology, and knot
              theory.


Details of the program can be found at
              http:/math.stanford.edu/contact.html
 

