              Abstract
CTS-0128860
R. D. Shelton, WTEC, Inc.

Partial support for the
              organization and travel of invited speakers participating at the Workshop on
              Nano- and Related Technologies for Improving Human Performance, December 3-4,
              2001, at NSF, will be provided.  The objective of the meeting is to evaluate
              the current research results and discuss future research directions in the
              emerging interdisciplinary field dealing with synergistic implications of
              nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology and cognition on
              improving human performance.  Nanotechnology is opening an array of
              technological developments that may significantly improve human perception,
              sensing, adaptation, learning, human-machine interface, communication, group
              creativity, and other aspects of human activities. The workshop will provide
              input from about thirty leading experts in various areas from science,
              engineering, cognitive sciences, medicine and other disciplines.  Specialists
              from academe and industry will attempt to identify common principles and
              approaches and develop collaborations.  The workshop will be organized with
              plenary presentations and 4-5 breakout sessions.   There will be about sixty
              participants, including observers from various agencies, academic and private
              organizations.
The main goals of the workshop are to evaluate the potential
              role of nano related technologies on improving human performance, identify
              research opportunities, and develop a strategic plan for the future.   Ample
              time will be allowed for questions and discussions.  The workshop is expected
              to facilitate the establishment of interdisciplinary cooperation among
              researchers in academe, industry and government in the in the area technology
              implication on human improvement.  A website will be established for timely
              communication and dissemination of the results.  A report will be prepared at
              the end of the meeting.

