              Abstract
CCR0 0239511

This award supports a workshop on information for
              Critical Infrastructure Protection, organized by the University of California
              at Berkeley, in cooperation with Vanderbilt University and the University of
              Virginia.  The NSF Workshop on Information Technology Research for Critical
              Infrastructure Protection, to be held in cooperation with OSTP, September
              19-24, 2002 in Leesburg VA.  The purpose is to evaluate status and identify
              research needs for information technology embedded in critical infrastructures.
               This workshop addresses research gaps in secure, networked, embedded systems
              for critical infrastructures; Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
              systems; and infrastructure interdependencies.  The first session is a two-day,
              in-depth exploration of research needs.  This session brings together the
              academic research community, industry, and federal participants.  The objective
              is the identification of challenge areas and development of a research agenda
              for software and information technology to support secure, networked, embedded
              systems.  The goal is a new software and systems research strategy that can
              underpin next-generation embedded systems, provide research infrastructure, and
              ultimately improve the nation's critical infrastructure.  Next is a one-day
              session, organized and co-funded by the Computing Research Association, to
              discuss academic perspectives on challenges in Critical Infrastructure
              Protection.  Concluding the workshop is a two-day session jointly sponsored by
              NSF, the Department of State, and OSTP to promote global progress on these
              issues and to promote international collaboration between researchers in the US
              and the EU.   The product of the workshop is a report, made available to the
              research community, to OSTP for strategic planning and to NSF and other Federal
              program managers for planning and coordination of research investments.  

 
              


