              With National Science Foundation support Dr. Peter Stahl will identify and
              analyze a collection of animal bone specimens that were recovered during
              archaeological investigations at the site of Challuabamba in the southern
              Andean highlands of Ecuador.  The site is of great importance for our
              understanding of early village agricultural life in this southern area of the
              northern Andes, as it appears to have been settled in 2200 B.C. and
              subsequently occupied for as much as 1000 years.  Analysis of the animal bone
              collection from Challuabamba provides insight into local resource utilization.
              Identification of the material could also contribute to our understanding of
              the early introduction and subsequent spread of South American animal
              domesticates like llamas, alpacas and guinea pigs, into their northernmost
              pre-Columbian distribution.  The identification of native domesticates in the
              Challuabamba collection would be of crucial importance for documenting their
              early appearance north of the present Peruvian border and for understanding the
              mechanism involved in their original introduction.  In particular, their
              appearance at Challuabamba is critical for assessing the viability of a
              southern terrestrial trade route as a potential mechanism for introducing early
              animal domesticates into Ecuador.  Coastal marine shells may have entered the
              southern Ecuadorian highlands via a terrestrial route through the nearby
              Cordillera de Mullupungu, where they were subsequently consumed and/or
              processed for further overland trade to interior northern Peru, and eventually
              to the coast.  In exchange, southern-derived animal domesticates may have
              entered Ecuador via this early trade mechanism.  This would be significant for
              our understanding of early domesticates in  Ecuador, because Challuabamba
              appears to predate important early cultural sequences on the coast.  The
              absence of native animal domesticates in the assemblage would support their
              appearance at Pirincay around A.D. 100 as the earliest occurrence of
              domesticates in the southern highlands of Ecuador, and potentially provide an
              earliest date for  possible terrestrial exchange of animals into the
              area.

Plants and animals were independently domesticated in several regions
              of both the Old and New World and Peru constitutes one such "hearth" area. In
              all cases domesicates eventually spread and were adopted by hunting and
              gathering peoples thus significantly altering their way of life.
              Anthropologists wish to understand the principles which underly this process of
              diffusion and culture change and Challuabamba provides an excellent context in
              which to address this question.

