The remains of Hurricane Gilbert passed across Texas Sunday, swelling rivers as hundreds of people began clearing debris from homes and businesses damaged by at least 41 tornadoes spun off by the storm. Bob Gibson, controller at the state's Emergency Operating Center in Austin, said Sunday night that his office was monitoring areas where flash flood and tornado watches were in effect until Sunday night, but had no reports of significant flooding. ``It's been actually pretty light tonight,'' he said. ``I think we're still lucky.'' Nearly 2 inches of rain fell Sunday at Quanah, northwest of Wichita Falls, which had a thunderstorm and high wind Sunday night, and some roads were under water in Ozona in West Texas Sunday afternoon, the National Weather Service reported. The remains of Gilbert were moving out of Texas and into Oklahoma late Sunday night, the weather service said. Forecasters told residents of central Oklahoma and southeast Kansas to watch for possible flooding early Monday. In Texas, tornadoes touched down just to the west of Abilene Sunday at Lake Sweetwater and at Eskota, but only minor damage was reported, the weather service said. A total of 41 tornadoes swept the state as the remains of Gilbert headed northward, officials said. Two people were reported killed, both in San Antonio late Friday and Saturday. State officials said they did not expect to have a dollar estimate of damages throughout the state for a few days. Trees and roofs were blown away at Kelly Air Force Base, causing $3 million damage. Scores of apartments were destroyed or damaged at one complex. Telephone and electric service was knocked out in areas. An air-conditioning system at a Veterans Administration Hospital was damaged, prompting Mayor Henry Cisneros to declare a state of emergency so replacement parts could be flown in and the transfer of patients avoided. ``San Antonio was very lucky,'' Cisneros said. ``We could have had 15, 20, 25 or 50 people killed in this incident.'' In northeastern Mexico, Coast Guard aircraft picked up people threatened by swollen rivers Sunday, but a dam thought to be in danger was re-evaluated and declared safe, said Laureen Chernow of the state Emergency Management Council. At least 98 deaths and billions of dollars in damage were blamed on the storm in the Caribbean and Mexico. An additional 90 deaths were confirmed and more than 100 others were feared drowned after a rain-swollen river overturned four buses in Monterrey, Mexico. The Rio Grande in Terrell County in southwest Texas rose 30 feet overnight and was up to 12 feet above flood stage Sunday evening, officials said. But high water that had forced the closing of two farm-to-market roads had subsided, said Sonny Holleyman, a Terrell County deputy sheriff. The roads were reopened and a rock slide that also blocked one of those roads had been cleared, he said. Authorities in the Texas Hill Country, a ranching and farming area, kept an eye on the flood-prone Guadalupe River, but no flooding was reported. In San Antonio, telephone and utility crews worked to restore service, and residents of apartments and houses hit by tornadoes began cleaning up. A twister struck a mobile home near downtown early Saturday, killing 59-year-old Emily Dickens, who was thrown about 100 feet from her bedroom. Recently widowed, she was sharing the trailer with her son and daughter-in-law. ``We're all pretty much in a daze. We really don't know how to react to anything right now,'' said the daughter-in-law, Deborah Dickens. ``We'll take one day at a time. We'll clean up and eventually we'll get our own house put up if we get some money to buy lumber and tin.'' On Friday, a man was killed when a tornado knocked a tree onto his house in San Antonio. Sylvia Sulsh, 54, was taking a shower when the tornado struck her third-story apartment at The Lodge apartments, where at least 120 units were destroyed, 264 others damaged and some 300 tenants left homeless. ``There was all this insulation all over me in the shower. I got out of the shower and braced myself against the door and then I saw all the roof fall down in the living room,'' Ms. Sulsh said. ``I was open to the world, so I grabbed my nightgown and robe. I was more worried about getting my clothes on than being sucked out of the shower by the wind.''