Among the also-rans, Gary Hart and Bruce Babbitt failed in New Hampshire to extract themselves from the bottom of the seven-man Democratic heap, but Pete du Pont's slow-but-improved showing on the Republican side Tuesday gave him cause for hope. None of the last-tier candidates was counting himself out as votes from the nation's first primary rolled in. But in the days to come, New Hampshire still could send a few candidates packing before Super Tuesday rolls around March 8. Proving that in politics all things are relative, du Pont, who was running fourth in the five-man Republican field, said: ``This has been a terrific evening for us here in New Hampshire.'' He had finished fifth in a six-man field _ before the withdrawal of Alexander Haig _ in Iowa's caucuses a week earlier. Du Pont's showing was just shy of Jack Kemp and ahead of Robertson, according to partial returns. All three trailed front-runner George Bush and his main rival, Bob Dole. For the Democrats, Babbitt edged out Hart. Ahead of them were Jesse Jackson and Albert Gore, each of whom had solid organizations awaiting them in the South. Richard Gephardt and Paul Simon were in the strong second tier behind winner Michael Dukakis. Hart, who won New Hampshire when he ran in 1984 but whose candidacy has failed to catch fire since he re-entered the 1988 race, called his meager showing at the bottom of the Democratic pack this time ``disappointing ... but not discouraging.'' The former Colorado senator said he expects to be a candidate ``as far ahead in the future as I can see'' but he was pragmatic about the need to start picking up some solid support that would translate into the dollars and delegates needed to win nomination. ``I understand that there are standards that have to be met in terms of delegates and votes,'' he said. ``It will take at least 30 to 60 days to determine if I can put together a viable candidacy.'' Babbitt, who had said prior to the New Hampshire primary that its voters had the power of life and death over his candidacy, insisted he wasn't ready to start planning his funeral just yet. ``I'm going to move on for a couple of days to Washington in a couple of days and call and talk to my supporters all over the country and ask them this question: How ... can we keep this reform movement alive?'' Jackson said he met with Babbitt on Tuesday night and discussed getting his support. ``Our message has tremendous overlap ... I hope that in time we will work out some common ground in terms of our politics,'' Jackson said. Robertson failed to repeat his dramatic second-place showing from Iowa, but had never claimed he'd sweep New Hampshire. He had better prospects in sight in the South and plenty of money on hand to propel him forward. One of the also-rans from the Iowa caucuses never even made it as far as the New Hampshire primary. Haig last week bowed out and threw his support to Dole.