The Connecticut Board of Parole today denied early release for the man convicted in the 1979 strangulation of a 14-year-old Stamford girl after an emotional plea from the victim's father. ``It is an insult to our daughter's memory that he could even be considered eligible for parole in less than nine years,'' Charlie Hoyt told the parole board during a brief hearing today at Somers State Prison. Bruce D. Williams Jr. pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter under a 1980 plea bargain agreement. A rape charge was dropped under the agreement. He was sentenced to 20 years to life in the death of Hoyt's daughter Sandy, who was lured to Williams' Stamford home with the promise of her first baby-sitting assignment. Last week, Hoyt presented the board's chairman, Richard Reddington, with more than 23,500 petition signatures urging that Williams be denied parole. Williams, 35, appeared briefly before the board today, asking the three-member panel to review his prison record and his efforts to obtain a college degree while in prison. He did not mention the girl's death. While addressing to the board, Hoyt broke down and had difficulty getting through his statement. ``If there are any doubts in your minds about this monster, then I suggest that the board take some time and view his videotaped confession,'' Hoyt said. It took the board members only 10 minutes in executive session to decide to deny Williams' bid for release. When they emerged, Reddington told Williams that because of the ``extreme seriousness'' of his offense, his request was being denied. The board scheduled another hearing for September 1994 with next potentional rlease date of Jan. 12, 1995. ``I'll be there,'' Hoyt said. In 1983, Hoyt's lobbying helped prompt legislators to enact a law that allows victims of most serious felonies to testify at an inmate's parole hearing. Hoyt began his petition drive aimed at keeping Williams behind bars hoping to collect 10,000 signatures, but ended up with more than twice that. ``People want to do something about the system,'' he said last week. Hoyt, who now lives in Fairield, says Williams called Sandy and said he was a doctor and needed someone to watch his child while he went on an emergency call. He took her to his house. Though Williams' young child was in the house, he tied Sandy to a bed, raped her and then strangled her, Hoyt said.