The FBI has no quota system to ensure Hispanics are included in a program to train agents for top positions, one of the FBI's highest-ranking officials testified Tuesday. ``We're trying to recruit the best people we can for the program,'' said John Otto, executive assistant FBI director. ``There are no quotas at this time. But we want our very best people to include minorities and women.'' Otto, one of three men who share the bureau's No. 2 rank under director William Sessions, testified in a discrimination lawsuit against the FBI. Attorneys for the 311 Hispanic agents joined in the class-action suit contend the FBI routinely keeps Hispanics out of a fast-track promotion path that includes the four-day Management Assessment Program. The plaintiffs contend the FBI discriminates against Hispanics in hiring, promotion, assignments and discipline. They seek unspecified damages and changes in FBI policies. About 400 of the bureau's 9,400 agents _ or 4.3 percent _ are Hispanic, compared with 8 percent of the general U.S. population. During the first week of testimony, about 40 agents _ Hispanic and non-Hispanic _ testified that Hispanic agents are transferred more often to undesirable locations, are given less glamorous or more dangerous assignments and receive less recognition for their successes. Otto said the FBI's Career Board, which supervises the fast-track promotion program, holds an annual retreat in Quantico, Va., to discuss the problems of minorities. No Hispanics sit on the Career Board, he testified. In other testimony, Melvin Jeter, head of the FBI's equal employment opportunity office, said all 25 discrimination complaints brought in the past by agents in the class-action suit were determined to be unfounded. Asked by defense attorney Felix Baxter whether he considered himself anti-Hispanic, Jeter said: ``I certainly do not. I personally look forward to going to conventions and recruiting Hispanic agents.'' Margaret Gulotta, head of the FBI's linguist program, said any agent who speaks a foreign language can be required to use that skill throughout the agent's career. Agents can serve as language specialists for three years, then ask not to be requested to use the language again. But a loophole in the rule allows supervisors to ask those agents to do undercover work, listen to wiretaps and do other assignments in the language based upon the needs of the FBI. The plaintiffs contend the FBI abuses that loophole, keeping Hispanic agents doing routine tasks, such as listening to wiretaps, that do not lead to management jobs. The non-jury trial is scheduled to end Friday, and U.S. District Judge Lucius Bunton is expected to render a decision within six months. Federal employees are not entitled to jury trials when suing the government in discrimination cases.