Delegates of Mauritius stormed out of the final session of the Organization of African Unity summit Saturday and accused the OAU of hypocrisy for criticizing their nation's increased trade with South Africa. ``These self-righteous, hypocritical accusations are an insult to Mauritius,'' said Satoam Boolall, the island nation's chief representative at the summit. ``My government feels that it is being unfairly and unjustly singled out.'' Boolall, of Mauritius' Foreign Ministry, said Prime Minister Aneerood Jugnauth ordered the delegation to walk out of the session. Conference sources said the Comoros Islands and the Seychelles, two other Indian Ocean islands, also protested the summit's adoption of an OAU Liberation Committee report expressing embarrassment and concern at their growing trade ties with South Africa. Thirty heads of state attended the OAU's 25th anniversary celebrations and its 24th summit in Addis Ababa, the organization's headquarters. OAU Secretary-General Ide Oumarou of Niger said the final resolution criticized those African nations that do not border South Africa and whose economic relationship with the white-dominated government was ``voluntary and deliberate.'' He said the organization was not being hypocritical in not citing the countries whose geographical proximity to South African and colonial heritages have forced their economies to be integrated into that of South Africa. Black Africa does about $1 billion a year business with South Africa, most of it covert. The summit established a committee to investigate that. It also asked the OAU secretariat to report on the financial cost of opening a Washington D.C. office to back efforts encouraging passage of a U.S. bill supporting economic sanctions against South Africa. The OAU member countries repeated longstanding calls for the United States to use its influence with Pretoria to ensure the speedy implementation of U.N. Resolution 435, calling for a cease-fire and referendum in Namibia, which South Africa administers. The summit also said it would work toward convening a U.N. Security Concil meeting to ``examine the totality of racist South Africa's reprehensive policies and acts of state terrorism in South Africa, Namibia and the region.'' The OAU discussed the $12 million owed by 34 member states to the organization's fund for the support of liberation movements. A resolution urged that the members owing money, some of which have never contributed, to clear their debts within two years ``to enable national liberation movements to intensify the armed struggle in Namibia and South Africa.'' President Moussa Traore of Mali, newly-elected chairman of the OAU, told reporters the pan-African body will continue to pursue its call for a unified front of the African National Congress, the main guerrilla movement fighting white domination in South Africa, and the much smaller Pan Africanist Congress, which are fighting South Africa's government. Under South Africa's system of apartheid, the nation's 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools, districts and health services.