Little Rock Police Chief Jess F. ``Doc'' Hale, suspended following his arrest on theft charges, died of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound Tuesday, authorities said. Lt. Bert Jenkins said Hale's wife, Jean, found Hale, 47, shot in the head in the laundry room of his home. Hale, of Cabot, was suspended as chief pending the outcome of his trial on a charge of theft of less than $200 from a cash register in a Little Rock drug store. He was arrested March 10 outside the store. Hale's trial was to begin May 24 in Pulaski County Circuit Court. He pleaded innocent to the charge March 11 and was released on his own recognizance. In a statement, Little Rock City Manager Tom Dalton said the gunshot wound ``appears to be self-inflicted.'' ``Our entire city is shocked and stunned as we share this tragedy and sorrow,'' Dalton said. ``We extend our deepest sympathy to Doc's family.'' Hale was charged after state police made secret videotapes in the store, which is a favorite hangout for local politicians and police. Chief Deputy Larry Jones of the Lonoke County sheriff's office said notes on several sheets from a yellow legal pad were found in Hale's residence, but he did not know the contents. However, Sheriff J.O. Isaac said Tuesday night that Hale didn't leave any note that would explain his death. ``There was not a note found in the vicinity of where the body was. Any businessman or law officer keeps notes and that's what these were,'' Isaac said of the sheets from the legal pad. Isaac said he expected results of an autopsy conducted late Tuesday would be released Wednesday by the state Crime Laboratory. The sheriff said he would not know until then whether Hale's death was a suicide. He said tests were also being conducted on a pistol _ not Hale's service revolver _ that was found near the body. Radio station KARN, quoting sources who insisted on anonymity, reported late Tuesday that a settlement of the Hale case was being negotiated. Under the settlement, KARN said, the charges against Hale would have been dropped if the chief resigned. Pulaski County Prosecuting Attorney Chris Piazza declined comment on the report, and attorneys for Hale and the store owner could not be reached at their homes or offices Tuesday night. Hale was hired as chief Oct. 20, 1986, after running the Medicaid Fraud Division of the state attorney general's office. He had joined the attorney general after a long career with the Little Rock Police Department.