A. No, but I do know that we're doing a great many things and we also are keeping track of the extent to which the private sector is joining in and helping on this, and this budget is the result of long, long weeks of negotiation with the Democrats and ourselves, and I think that we're meeting the problems. Again, I also have to say this _ that sometimes, our budget in programs can reflect another program we've had going, which is a management program, and we have had a team for a considerable period of time now that has been actually investigating the management practices of government programs as compared to the way they're done in the private sector. And there are millions and millions of dollars that are being saved so that something that maybe looks smaller does not mean that the people in need are going to get less, it means that we're able to provide that with less administrative overhead. When I came here from a governorship, as a governor, I had seen federal programs administered in our state in which it was costing the federal government $2 for every dollar that reached a needy person. This is something we've been trying to change, and we've made some progress in it. Q. Mr. President, just to follow up on the budget, the chairman of your Council of Economic Advisers told us last week that the deficit might have a good side if it forces your successor and Congress to make choices in social programs _ do you _ is that _ do you see a good side to the deficit? A. I have said that I think that there is a great reform that is needed throughout many of those programs, and it is a reform to where we can get these programs to where their goal will be to remove people from dependency and make them independent of government help instead of doing what we've been doing for too many years now, and that is, actually involving them in dependency to the place where they never can get out _ we've made them permanently dependent on government _ and we're trying to change that, correct that. Q. Thank you. A. Thank you, Helen. I'm going to run for it now.