A Taiwanese man was convicted Tuesday on murder and robbery charges in a bloody street shooting that left two federal drug agents and two assailants dead. Su Re ``Michael'' Chia, 21, was not at the scene of the Feb. 5 robbery and shooting, but was an important figure in a drug deal that had been planned as a double-cross, prosecutors had argued. Chia delivered a gun, gave a ride to one of the alleged killers, and acted as a lookout for them, prosecutors said during his three-week trial. Jurors reached their verdict on their third day of deliberations. Chia, who could face life in prison, is to be sentenced Dec. 21. Chia was convicted in the deaths of Drug Enforcement Administration agents Paul Seema and George Montoya and attempted murder in the wounding of agent Jose Martinez. He was also found guilty of robbery and conspiracy to commit robbery. The undercover agents were shot after they agreed during a meeting at a Monterey Park restaurant to buy $80,000 worth of heroin. They drove to a quiet Pasadena street to conduct the transaction. However, two men got into the undercover agents' car and robbed and shot them, then fled to a waiting car where a third man drove them away, with backup agents and police in pursuit. Investigators later said the killers planned the double-cross robbery from the start and did not know they were dealing with DEA agents. After a brief chase, the car was stopped in San Marino and Michael Sun, 17, and Wen Hui Kow, 27 were killed in a shootout. Win Wei ``William'' Wang, 19, was shot eight times but survived. Wang is charged with first-degree murder with special circumstances that could lead to the death penalty if he is convicted. When police picked up Chia after the shooting, they found bullets, handcuffs, a clip that fit one of the guns used in the agents' shooting, and three ski masks in his car. ``He delivered one of the murder weapons the night before, and knew about the robbery plan,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer said of Chia. ``He knew about the robbery plan, and took Wang to the apartment of one of the other shooters.'' Defense attorney Brian O'Neill contended that authorities lied and altered reports after Chia's arrest to make their case against him.