Jesse Jackson issued an emotional appeal today for supporters to back the Democratic ticket and told Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen that he will be keeping up the ``street heat'' to make sure they don't forget his constituents. ``It is in order and it is right to support this ticket because of our access to it and our relaionship with it,'' Jackson told several hundred delegates as Dukakis and Bentsen looked on. ``We have every reason to be hopeful, to be excited, to know that we are close to where we are going, a long way from where we started,'' Jackson said. ``And in our lifetime you and I will be in the White House.'' He introduced Dukakis as ``a man I've come to know, to respect ... a man I've come to ... love because of his own sensitivity to family,'' Jackson added: ``I bring to you a man I plan to watch up close ... when he becomes ... the next president of the United States _ Michael Dukakis.'' The group erupted in applause and shouts of ``Duke, Duke.'' ``We're going to need you, we want you, we can't win without you,'' Dukakis responded. Jackson issued a blistering attack on the Reagan record and called for Democratic unity. A progressive agenda will be won with ``a combination of street heat and leadership,'' he said. He promised Dukakis, ``There will be enough heat to cook our meat and enough heat for George Bush to get out of the kitchen.'' Jackson recalled that when Lyndon B. Johnson was added to the ticket in 1960, some civil rights activists were concered. But Johnson rose to the occasion, Jackson said. Turning to Bentsen, he said, ``In a real sense, your occasion is now... You ask us to trust you. All we can ask of anyone is that they not betray that trust.'' Jackson repeated that he wants neither a job nor a title with the Dukakis operation. ``I want to serve, free to serve at my own pace, free to serve, free to challenge,'' he said. He said he expects his own relationship with the ticket will influence some policies. ``What does it mean to me in practical terms?'' Jackson asked. ``The contras have lost a vote.'' Bentsen _ who has voted for aid to the Nicaraguan rebels _ and Dukakis politely joined the applause as delegates chanted, ``No contra aid.'' Jackson, who had been the last survivor in the Democratic field against Dukakis, had endorsed the ticket at Thursday night's closing session of the party's convention. At the end of the long road, Jackson said, ``I feel fantastic.'' But it was clear he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasn for the Dukakis-Bentsen ticket. Jesse Jackson embraced the Democratic ticket he had wanted to head and gave the Democrats the unity send-off they sought for victory in the November election. As he strode from the podium where he joined Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis on Thursday night, Jackson said, ``We have a good ticket and a good team. And if the unity that is expressed here tonight is sustained and expands, we will win and we will deserve to win.'' Asked his own feeling at the close of the convention, he said, ``I feel fantastic.'' With the dust hardly settled from his own presidential campaign, Jackson today was looking ahead to new political ventures. He called a meeting today of his 1,200 delegates to include them in his plans to campaign for the Dukakis ticket, raise money for his own political action committee and register voters. It appeared Thursday night that he would have to do some selling to whip up enthusiasm among some delegates for the team of Dukakis and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. Signs reading ``No Contra aid'' printed up by members of the Vermont delegation were held up by several Jackson delegates around the hall. Dukakis opposes aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, while Bentsen has voted for it in the past. ``He's against peace,'' said Vermont delegate Cindy Milstein who mentioned several pro-military stands by Bentsen. But Jackson officials circulated a statement from him to his delegates before the vice presidential vote, urging support of Bentsen. The brief statement said that while he disagrees with Dukakis and Bentsen on some issues, ``our interest converges in building a coalition to beat the Republicans this fall.'' Jackson's appearance in the hall later was clearly appreciated. At the mention of his name by Dukakis, a deafening cheer went up from both Jackson and Dukakis delegates. At first Jackson sat unnoticed in a VIP box with former President Jimmy Carter, an uncustomary role for Jackson, until Dukakis waved to him. Jackson stood, gave a thumbs up and the delegates erupted in emotion.