A group of Washington lobbyists have formed the capital-based National Vintners Association to promote and represent in Congress the wine interests in the 43 producing states. The NVA, in addition to representing the approximately 1,300 wineries in this country, also is targeting for membership thousands more winegrape growers at the start of the production chain, according to association Executive Director Richard Feeney. The NVA ``is a national trade association based on Capitol Hill...because the wine industry faces serious threats from federal regulation, because NVA members need to have timely, accurate information from Washington,'' Feeney said. Feeney, a Congressional lobbyist and onetime director of the National Meat Association, said his direct connection with wine was from 1970-74, when he was partner in a wine importing business. Feeney said the association, only a few weeks old, had no intention of vying for supremacy with California's 54-year-old Wine Institute, which directly represents for 520 of the state's 770 wineries. Most other wine-producing states have no organization, said Feeney, contending, ``The fact remains that if a vintner in Virginia or Oregon wants to join a national organization, there ain't any.'' Feeney said he did not think many other wine-producing states had adequate liaison with Congress and federal agencies affecting the industry. Vintners are worried about what they see as a wave of prohibitionist feeling in America, expressed in new label laws, restaurant posting of toxicity warnings for pregnant women, new taxes, and a widespread anti-alcohol surge. One of the NVA's most ambitious programs will be to lobby Congress to change the way federal law regards winegrapes, said Feeney, who said lawmakers might be ready ``to look at wine differently.'' Unlike many other agricultural products, grapes grown for wine get no subsidy, and the end product is regarded an alcoholic beverage subject to regulation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Feeney said, ``the time has come for wine to take its place with other agricultural products'' and to share benefits enjoyed by ``commodities such as soybeans, beef, dairy products, catfish and pork.'' He said he wants wine looked upon as food, a desire that coincides with ongoing efforts of California's major vintners, principally Robert Mondavi, who is about to launch a privately financed pro-wine program.