Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy is broke and will have to leave the luxurious suite he has occupied since fleeing here after a coup in neighboring Haiti unseated him Sept. 17, an official said Monday. Deputy Foreign Minister Fabio Herrera Cabral said Namphy was forced to leave Haiti so quickly _ only hours after the coup carried out by the Presidential Guard _ that he did not have time to bring money. Namphy's bills at the Dominican Concorde Hotel will be paid by the Dominican government but he will have to leave the hotel by week's end, the official said. In a televised interview, Herrera said Namphy has received some economic aid from a group of Haitian businessmen residing in the Dominican Republic and from Dominican friends. The deposed general is accompanied in exile by his wife, Gabrielle, and daughter, Melissa. Herrera denied that Namphy had made an official petition for permanent political asylum in the Dominican Republic, as was reported by a Foreign Ministry source last week. However, he admitted that Namphy has made it obvious he wants to stay in the Dominican Republic, which shares the Caribbean island of Hispaniola with Haiti. Herrera indicated that Namphy's presence in the Dominican Republic will not affect relations with Haiti. ``He (Namphy) says that he was never a politician, that he was a military man, that his military career is over now and that he is not interested in any political or military position,'' Herrera said, speaking about discussions he had with the former Haitian leader. ``It seems that Namphy never thought he would have to leave his country and ... because of the circumstances under which he had to do it he was unable to bring any money,'' Herrera said. The deputy foreign minister said Namphy's friends are searching for a modest but secure house for the deposed general and his family to move into by the end of this week. Herrera also denied rumors that Franck Romain, the ousted mayor of Port-au-Prince, left the Dominican Embassy in the Haitian capital. He said Romain, his wife, daughter and a group of about 10 other persons are still in the embassy waiting for the Haitian government to grant them safe conduct out of the country. Romain is the reputed leader of thugs known as Tonton Macoutes and is suspected of having ordered the attack at the St. Jean Bosco Church that left 13 persons dead and 77 wounded. The Sept. 11 massacre was mentioned by the soldiers who overthrew Namphy as one of the reasons for carrying out the coup. Namphy remains secluded in his hotel suite, refusing to speak with reporters. A waiter who is the only person authorized by security personnel to attend to Namphy's needs in the hotel said Namphy spends the day in white short pants, either reading or looking out the window of his suite. His wife and daughter also spend most of the time reading, said the waiter, who asked that his name not be used.