Strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega has offered to resign before next year's presidential elections if opponents agree to talks with his regime, Panama's chief of state told his countrymen Monday. The opposition, whose general strike Monday paralyzed the nation, and the United States, which has kept up steady pressure to force a Noriega resignation, immediately rejected the general's offer. Elections are scheduled for May 1989. ``There will be no dialogue,'' said Aurelio Barria, the main leader of the National Civic Crusade, an anti-Noriega coalition of 200 business, professional, labor and political groups that called the indefinite work stoppage. He added: ``The general has to go _ immediately, not eventually. The strike will continue.'' Manuel Solis Palma, installed last month as the minister in charge of the presidency, made the announcement of Noriega's offer in a nationally broadcast speech. He said Noriega had given his word ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to step down if his conditions are met. In Washington, State Department spokesman Anita Stockman said: ``We believe the offer is little more than one, a ploy to attempt to legitimize the illegal Solis Palma regime by calling for negotiations between it and opposition groups and two, an effort on the part of Noriega to maintain direct or indirect control of the Panamanian Defense Forces. ``We stand by our previous view that Noriega should go, and the sooner the better for Panama.'' Noriega is under indictment on federal drug charges in Florida. The United States has dried up the flow of money to Panama, which uses the U.S. dollar as its currency, in the effort to force him out, and the economy is near collapse. The general put down a coup attempt by dissident officers last week and rejected a U.S. plan for him to leave Panama and live in Spain. In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said earlier Monday that there were no plans for further talks with Noriega after the return of two administration officials from Panama City. ``I think they have a pretty good reading of the general's attitude,'' Fitzwater said. ``It didn't seem to include further conversations, at least at this point.'' The strike included Panama City's central commercial district, where the small shops that cater to the lower and middle classes had not joined previous shutdowns by wealthier businesmen and industrialists. ``We're sending Noriega a message,'' said the owner of a shoe store, who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals. ``We hope he's listening.'' Noriega commands the military and police as head of the 15,000-member Defense Forces and is the power behind the civilian government. The secretary of the Panamanian Human Rights Foundation said a man died Monday of wounds suffered when he was hit in the face and chest by birdshot fired by police during disturbances in Panama City last Wednesday. It was the fourth protest-related death since anti-government demonstrations began last summer. Noriega's opponents hailed the strike as their greatest triumph so far. ``It's completely successful,'' said Guillermo Cochez, vice president of the Christian Democratic Party. ``Today has been a very special day ... in the capital as well as the provinces. We hope Noriega's advisers and the people surrounding him will help him to see the reality.'' ``The paralyzation is total in industry, finance and commerce,'' said Carlos Gonzalez de la Lastra, a business leader. Gonzalez and Cochez are directors, along with Barria, of the National Civic Crusade. Noriega made another move Monday to strengthen his control of the Defense Forces by announcing the promotions of 98 officers to ranks ranging from colonel to lieutenant. Among those promoted to colonel was Eros Ramiro Cal, who was named last week to replace Col. Leonidas Macias, the leader of the foiled coup, as the nation's police chief. The Defense Forces also said administrative discipline would be taken against 17 officers implicated in last Wednesday's attempted coup, but did not give details. It previously acknowledged eight or nine officers had joined in the attempt and said only five were being detained. Gustavo Gonzalez of the striking dockworkers said leaders of all major unions were summoned to a meeting Sunday night with Solis Palma, and told the military would not interfere if the strike remained peaceful. He said union leaders were told the government, which could not meet its payroll two weeks ago, also would be unable to cover semi-monthly paychecks due next week. Solis Palma replaced Eric Arturo Delvalle, who was dismissed by the legislature after he tried to fire Noriega and still is recognized by the United States as Panama's president. Delvalle is in hiding in Panama. Because the government has silenced opposition newspapers and broadcast stations, thousands of people went to work without knowing a strike had been called. Most went home when they found stores and offices closed. By midday, the city was a ghost town patrolled by helmeted soldiers in combat gear. The government said they were providing security for businesses that chose to open. Panama's ailing economy came apart after Feb. 25, when Delvalle tried to fire Noriega and the legislature fired Delvalle. Banks closed the following week and the government could not meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees. Washington has cut off economic and military aid and millions of dollars in Panamanian funds have been frozen in U.S. banks by legal actions.