Sexual harassment of women in the Marine Corps remains a problem that can be remedied by emphasizing that the practice will not be tolerated, according to a Marine Corps report released Sunday. The Task Force on Women in the Marine Corps said existing directives and the corps' primary grievance system are ``appropriate tools to implement Marine Corps policy on this issue.'' However, the commandant of the corps must convey that sexual harassment will not be tolerated in the service, according to the executive summary of the final report. ``The (commandant) will improve sexual harassment awareness training in formal schools and at the recruit depots,'' said the report, which will be released Monday. The task force, formed in September 1987 at the request of then-Secretary of Navy James Webb, said the corps did not have a ``significant problem'' with fraternization. ``Fraternization is not a gender-specific issue,'' the report said. ``No corrective action was recommended.'' In February, Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci responded to a Pentagon report by ordering expanded job opportunities for women in the Marine Corps and the Air Force, including the assignment of female Marines to embassy guard duty. Women account for about 10 percent of the nation's 2.1 million military personnel. By law, they are excluded from combat. The content of the Pentagon report provided the basis of the Marine Corps report released Sunday. The report also recommended certain steps to improve the quality of life for female Marines, including solving the problem of shortage in uniform items and lengthy delays in filling special orders, ensuring full investigation when homosexual conduct is suspected and allowing a pregnant Marine to request a 30-day delay in the notification of her commander by the medical officer. The task force also recommended that the Navy surgeon general review the policy regarding the assignment of obstetricians and gynecologists to combat service units, and the commandant review the number of women medical and dental personnel assigned to various units. The Navy surgeon general also should publish information regarding oral contraceptives for men, recreational programs should be expanded and additional child care centers be built, the report said. The commandant approved all the recommendations with the exception of pregnancy notification and oral contraceptives for men.