The Republican war for Virginia's gubernatorial nomination has heated up with U.S. Sen. Paul S. Trible Jr.'s announcement of his candidacy, with opponents attacking his fund-raising, reasons and timing. U.S. Rep. Stan Parris, an announced candidate for the nomination, charged Saturday that Trible's fund-raising for next year's election is taking money away from this year's GOP candidates for the U.S. House, Senate and presidency. ``There is only a finite amount of money you can look for in any one year,'' Parris said Saturday after Trible supporters announced they already had raised $527,400 in cash and pledges for his campaign. Parris said he would not raise money for his campaign until after the November elections. Former state Attorney General Marshall Coleman is an all-but-declared candidate. Democrats are expected to nominate Lt. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, the state's highest elected black official. Trible, who announced his candidacy Saturday, had announced last year that he would not seek a second term in the Senate because it took him away from his family too much, and because he was frustrated with the slow pace of the Senate. Coleman said Trible should not look upon the governor's job simply as better working conditions. ``My interest in the governorship is not in better working conditions. What is needed is to change the course of the state. What the Republicans in Virginia are going to want to know is what a candidate for governor is going to do to make the state better. I don't look at the governorship as a seat to warm,'' Coleman said. Parris and Coleman have charged that Trible is giving up his Senate seat to avoid a tough campaign against former Gov. Charles S. Robb, the Democratic nominee for the Senate. The GOP nominee, Maurice Dawkins, is given little chance of beating Robb. Mark Rozell, a political scientist from Mary Washington College, said Trible faces problems with the party's conservative wing, which is unhappy with his performance on the Senate committee investigating the Iran-Contra affair. They charge that Trible, who criticized the administration's handling of the matter, unfairly attacked President Reagan.