Conservative Republicans said Thursday that George Bush is headed for defeat in November if he chooses a running mate from the GOP's ``establishment blue-bloods.'' Bush, the certain Republican presidential nominee, is weighing a number of choices for the ticket's No. 2 spot and has indicated he will wait until the GOP convention in New Orleans Aug. 15-18 to announce his decision. Sen. Gordon J. Humphrey, R-N.H., chairman of the Coalition for a Winning Ticket, declined to single out the group's ideal vice presidential candidate. But he did say conservatives were disappointed by the selection of Gov. Thomas Kean of New Jersey as the convention's keynote speaker. Kean, who has been mentioned as a possible Bush running mate, is from the party's moderate wing and, like Bush, has an Ivy League background. ``The problem of the Bush campaign is that it is attracted to establishment blue-bloods. What the Bush ticket needs is a transfusion of red corpuscles from the conservative wing of our party,'' Humphrey said at a news conference. Humphrey said a number of other possible Bush running mates from the party's moderate wing also were not acceptable to conservatives, including Richard Thornburgh, the former Pennsylvania governor who has been chosen to succeed Attorney General Edwin Meese III; Gov. Jim Thompson of Illinois; former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, and former Tennessee Sen. and White House chief of staff Howard H. Baker Jr. ``If George Bush selects an establishment Republican as his running mate, we believe we are headed for a disaster in November,'' Humphrey said. He described Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana, Rep. Jack Kemp of New York and Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire as acceptable to conservatives. He was equivocal on other possible candidates, including Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, Dole's wife Elizabeth Hanford Dole, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas and Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming. He said, however, that conservatives would probably not be enthusiastic about them.