The White House and the weather cooperated to entertain Turkish President Kenan Evren in regal style at a starlit state dinner, where President Reagan lauded ties with the NATO ally as a ``solid structure'' for building peace and prosperity. Evren, the first Turkish president to make a state visit to the United States in 21 years, responded with a toast at Monday's Rose Garden event that praised Reagan for his efforts to lessen superpower tensions and slash the threatening arsenal of nuclear weapons. ``We support the efforts of your administration to seek better relationships with the Soviet Union,'' said the Turkish president, whose strategic nation borders on that country as well as Iran and Iraq. In his brief toast, Reagan hailed recent improvements in the U.S.-Turkish relationship. He said the 40-year history of bilateral ties was built upon a ``solid structure'' and predicted it would continue decades into the future. ``Our aspirations for our partnership remain large _ peace, security and freedom for our peoples, close cooperation in securing these objectives, and success in defending them,'' Reagan said. Turkey is the third largest recipient of U.S. aid after Israel and Egypt, primarily due to its strategic location and usefulness as a listening post on the Soviet Union, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. Although strains have appeared in the relationship in recent years over the level of U.S. aid to the strategic NATO ally, no such problems were apparent at the elaborate state dinner. Usually, the black-tie events that are part of a formal state visit occur inside the executive mansion. But tempted by the balmy breezes that ended a heat spell and the clear moonlit skies, the dinner featuring shrimp parfait, filet of lamb and coconut ice cream was served in the torch-lit Rose Garden. Later, guests were entertained under the stars by classical guitarist Christopher Parkening. Earlier in the day, the two men met for 45 minutes after a colorful fife and drum welcome was accorded the Turkish leader. A senior administration official said the two men engaged in a ``general review'' of the bilateral relations, and touched on East-West relations and the Iran-Iraq War. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Reagan took the opportunity ``to assure President Evren that we would continue to work ... with Congress to give priority to our overall security assistance program with Turkey.'' The official said the Turkish president made no specific economic requests and that his remarks carried ``the theme of trade, not aid.'' Congress approved $520 million in aid for Turkey last year _ almost all of it military assistance _ down from the $570 million which the administration sought and the $1.2 billion that Turkey is seeking to help modernize its defense forces. For fiscal 1989, starting next Oct. 1, the administration has asked Congress to approve $620 million. The president said Americans ``have admired the way Turkey pulled itself back to democracy when challenged by the violent forces of terrorism and anarchy a year ago.'' Evren, a retired army general, led a 1980 coup in Turkey that helped restore public order after years of mounting violence by the extreme right and left. Democratic civilian rule was restored in 1983 and voters overwhelmingly approved a new constitution, making Evren president for a 7-year term. Reagan also praised growing U.S.-Turkish trade, calling it ``the surest way that Turkey can find to ensure the prosperity its people seek.'' And in a symbolic move, Reagan presented Evren with the Legion of Merit in gratitude for the contribution of the Turkish military during the Korean War. The medal represents one of the highest military honors America can bestow.