Rain was scattered across the South on Sunday, and rain and high wind lashed the Pacific Northwest. Showers and thunderstorms associated with a slowly moving cold front were over Arkansas, Louisiana, and eastern and south-central sections of Texas during the afternoon, with some locally heavy rain. Showers and thunderstorms also produced locally heavy rain over northern and central Florida. Heavier rainfall totals for the six hours up to 2 p.m. EDT included 2.31 inches at Shreveport, La.; 1.70 inches at Mayport, Fla.; 1.37 at Fort Polk, La.; 1.33 at Pine Bluff, Ark.; 1.24 inches at Daytona Beach, Fla.; 1.11 inches at San Antonio, Texas; and 1.10 at Alexandria, La. Killeen, Texas, got 2.99 inches of rain during the 12-hour period up to 2 p.m. EDT. A cold front crossing the northern Pacific Coast region carried rain and high wind to parts of Washington and Oregon. Quillayute, Wash., got 1.49 inches in six hours during the night. Showers were scattered from eastern Washington state into the northern Rocky Mountains. Strong southwesterly wind blew over the northern high Plains, with a gust to 66 mph during the morning at Livingston, Mont. Blustery northwesterly wind carried cold air into Oklahoma and Texas during the afternoon. Temperatures in the 70s extended as far north as the Carolinas and southern sections of the Ohio Valley. But clouds and northwesterly wind kept afternoon temperatures in the 30s and 40s across the northern half of the Mississippi Valley, and afternoon readings were mostly in the 40s from the Dakotas to the northern and central high Plains. Temperatures were in the 40s and 50s across much of the West, and in the 80s in the desert Southwest. Overnight temperatures dipped into the teens and 20s in the Great Basin that includes Nevada and western Utah, and in the Rockies. Readings dipped below freezing during the night across upstate New York and northern New England, over the Texas Panhandle and Oklahoma Panhandle, and from the northern and central high Plains to Minnesota. Wheat Ridge, Colo., tied its record low for the date of 23. Sunday's low for the Lower 48 states was 3 above zero at Gunnison, Colo.