George Strait, who nearly quit singing 11 years ago, is the Country Music Association's top entertainer for the second straight year. Strait, frustrated over a lack of success, considered giving up his career in 1979 to work for a company that designs cattle pens, but he decided to keep going and soon became one of country music's top stars. His second win of the association's most prestigious honor came Monday during the CMA's 24th annual awards show. ``They were both surprises,'' the 38-year-old singer said after the nationally televised show. ``Everyone nominated certainly deserved to be there. But I'm glad they picked me.'' Over the summer, he had the biggest hit record of his career, ``Love Without End, Amen.'' His album ``Livin' It Up'' also has been a swift seller. ``It's hard not to be affected by this stuff,'' Strait said of his awards success. He shared laurels Monday night at the Grand Ole Opry House with the Kentucky HeadHunters, who won two awards, and with Clint Black and Kathy Mattea, who were chosen best vocalists. Tennessee Ernie Ford, 71, ``the Ol' Peapicker,'' capped off his career by being chosen for the Country Music Hall of Fame. ``Bless your little pea-pickin' hearts. Tonight I'm a happy man,'' said Ford, a TV pioneer known for his 1955 hit record ``Sixteen Tons.'' The Kentucky HeadHunters, a five-piece band whose shaggy hair and rock 'n' roll stylings make them unlikely country music stars, won vocal group of the year and best album for ``Pickin' on Nashville.'' ``Does this mean we get to keep our hair?'' jested HeadHunters' guitarist Greg Martin. Another double winner was newcomer Garth Brooks, who won top music video for ``The Dance'' and the Horizon Award for career development. His music video included clips of former President John Kennedy, the Challenger crew and John Wayne. Vince Gill, a singer who has done backup vocals for more than 100 of his peers, was rewarded by his friends when he won single of the year for ``When I Call Your Name.'' ``I've been around for a long time and I've waited for this for a long time so I'm going to stand up here for a long time,'' Gill, 33, said in accepting the award. The Judds, a mother-daughter duo, were chosen best vocal duo for the third straight year. ``I have just one more space on my mantel. I was really hoping for this,'' daughter Wynonna Judd said. Lorrie Morgan and her late husband, Keith Whitley, won vocal event of the year honoring performers who normally don't sing together. Their award was for ``'Til a Tear Becomes a Rose,'' which Whitley recorded alone. Morgan added her vocals after his death in May 1989. Song of the Year, a songwriter's award, went to Jon Vezner and Don Henry for the poignant ``Where've You Been,'' which was recorded by Mattea, Vezner's wife. Fiddler Johnny Gimble won musician of the year for the fourth time in the past five years. Randy Travis, who has sold more than 10 million records in just four years, failed for the fourth time to win the entertainer of the year award. Ricky Van Shelton, voted No. 1 male singer a year ago, won nothing this year despite being nominated in three categories. Travis and Reba McEntire was hosts of the show. Winners were chosen by the 6,000 voting members of the CMA, mostly singers, musicians, songwriters, song publishers, record company employees and disc jockeys. The Hall of Fame honoree was selected by an anonymous 300-member committee.