Five American airlines have been authorized to open passenger and cargo service to Tokyo and other cities in Japan, the Department of Transportation announced on Monday. Three air carriers - United Air Lines, Delta Air Lines and American Airlines - were authorized to serve Tokyo. Delta, America West Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines were authorized to serve two other Japanese cities, Nagoya and Fukuoka. The route awards were granted under a November 1989 agreement which laid the foundation for a major expansion of air service between the United States and Japan. In making the announcement the department noted that the U.S.-Japanese market currently generates more than $6 billion in revenue for both countries. Last year the Japan market ranked third in numbers of passengers, after Canada and Great Britain, and was first in passenger revenue. Monday's announcement is the last of several awards authorizing new flights to Japan. In July, Federal Express, which had been providing all-cargo service to Tokyo, was permitted to serve Nagoya as well. In August, United Cargo Service was selected to operate a new all-cargo service to Tokyo. And in September the department allotted the 450 charter flights authorized by the agreement. Patrick V. Murphy, deputy assistant secretary for international affairs, made the following new selections: -Chicago-Tokyo authority to United with backup authority to American if United does not choose to fly the new route. -Los Angeles-Tokyo authority to Delta with backup authority to American. San Jose-Tokyo authority to American with backup authority to Continental Airlines for Houston-Tokyo service. -Honolulu-Nagoya authority to America West with backup authority to Continental. -Honolulu-Fukuoka authority to Hawaiian Airlines with backup authority to Continental for Los Angeles-Nagoya service. -Portland-Nagoya authority to Delta with backup authority to Continental for Seattle-Nagoya service. Nine air carriers submitted 23 proposals for the new routes, the department said.