George Strait's path is clear. From Entertainer of the Year, to North Dakota, to Kansas and then back to the ranch. That's where music business success is leading the soft-speaking, hard-singing Texan. Backstage Monday night at the Country Music Association's awards ceremony, Strait smiled from under his black hat and talked about how it's been. ``It's hard not to be affected by this stuff. It's great,'' said Strait, who won the CMA's top award the second consecutive year. Strait, like most country acts, will tour small towns and cities across the naton this winter. But Strait will stop after 80 or so appearances and return to his ranch in early November. ``I made up my mind I wasn't going to tour as much,'' said Strait, known outside the country industry for his TV beer commercials. Members of the fast-rising group Kentucky HeadHunters figure two awards means they won't have to cut their hair. Their locks were longer than anyone's at the awards ceremony - except for Crystal Gayle's. ``Does this mean we get to keep our hair?'' asked Greg Martin, one of five HeadHunters taking home crystal trophies for Album of the Year, ``Pickin' on Nashville,'' and for Vocal Group of the Year. The only other double winner was Garth Brooks, with the Horizon Award (for career development) and Music Video of the Year for ``The Dance.'' Tennessee Ernie Ford was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame, an honor that made the 71-year-old singer consider the youth of some other winners. ``These people who performed tonight, I've got neckties older than they are,'' Ford said on the nationally televised awards presentation. Clint Black won Male Vocalist of the Year and Kathy Mattea won top female vocalist honors. The Judds, Wynonna and mother Naomi, picked up Vocal Duo of the Year award. Single of the Year went to Vince Gill for ``When I Call Your Name.'' Vocal Event of the Year, for performers who do not normally sing together, went to Lorrie Morgan and her late husband, Keith Whitley. Song of the Year, a songwriter's award, was given to Jon Vezner and Don Henry for ``Where've You Been.'' Johnny Gimble received Musician of the Year award.