Iraq has said it might attend a proposed Arab summit aimed at avoiding war in the Persian Gulf, but only if the meeting also deals with the Arab-Israeli dispute. King Hassan of Morocco proposed the emergency summit on Sunday as a ``last chance'' for peace. There were new signs, meanwhile, of cracks in the alliance against Iraq. Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak was quoted today as saying that Egyptian soldiers will not enter Iraq even if U.S. and other troops attack. He said his troops could, however, enter Kuwait as a peacekeeping force. At the same time, the European Community said it would urge Baghdad to accept a U.N.-brokered solution concerning the hundreds of Westerners held by Iraq. The EC wants countries negotiating hostage deals with Iraq to work together and thereby prevent tensions among nations in the anti-Iraq alliance. Meanwhile, an Arab summit attended by Iraq appeared possible. On Sunday, Iraq's ruling Revolutionary Command Council said Iraq would attend the summit under three conditions. Those were that Baghdad be consulted in advance on the agenda, that the timing and location be chosen so Saddam could attend, and that the agenda include not just the gulf crisis but all Middle East issues - including the Palestinian question. The council, led by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, also suggested it would not allow certain topics to be discussed. It did not specify which ones. ``The proposed summit should not be part of efforts to prepare the political theater as a cover for American aggression against Iraq and the Arab nation,'' the statement said. In Tunis, the Palestine Liberation Organization issued a statement saying it agreed with King Hassan's initiaive. Saddam has long demanded that a solution to the crisis be linked to the Palestinian issue. He made the offer shortly after his Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. King Hassan suggested that the summit be held in Rabat, the Morrocan capital, in a week. But he said he would attend a summit wherever it might be held. Morocco, outspoken among Arab nations in condemning the Iraqi invasion, has committed more than 1,200 soldiers to the U.S.-led multinational force based in Saudi Arabia. In an interview with British television, Saddam again urged dialogue on the crisis and said he did not believe the world was united against him. The major powers and ``a number of countries'' are lined up against Baghdad, Saddam acknowledged. ``But to say that the world is unified against Iraq is indeed not a correct thing to say. ``In the statements of the U.S. and Britain, they themselves are voicing their concern that the unity - so-called unity against Iraq - is perhaps ... suffering from a split,'' Saddam said. Secretary of State James A. Baker III received assurances from key allies last week that they will accept nothing short of an unconditional Iraqi pullout. However, officials said China, France and the Soviet Union reportedly expressed concern that Washington might attack Iraqi forces without giving the U.N.-ordered trade embargo enough of a chance. There were also signs of cracks in the Arab alliance against Iraq. When Baker visited Cairo last week, a senior U.S. official said the United States is confident that Egypt would fight alongside U.S. forces if war broke out. But asked by his party's newspaper, Mayo, whether Egypt would send troops to Iraq following a U.S.-led attack, Mubarak said: ``No, we have nothing to do with Iraq.'' But if the anti-Iraq allies invaded Kuwait, he said, ``We do not mind at all entering Kuwait as peacekeeping forces ... although I do not hope for this day at all.'' In Washington, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the Bush administration must have the support of the American people if the nation is to go to war with Iraq. ``The last thing we need is to have a war over there, a bloody war, and have American boys being sent and brought back in body bags and yet not have the American people behind them,'' said Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga. ``We've gone that route one time. We don't need to do it again.'' In Brussels, meanwhile, European Community foreign ministers said they would step up pressure on Iraq to open talks with a U.N. envoy on the fate of hundreds of Westerners that Baghdad is holding. They said they would encourage about 40 nations to pressure Sadam into accepting mediation by such an envoy. In other developments: -Foreign Minister Qian Qichen of China met today with Saddam in Baghdad. A Chinese diplomat said talks focused on how to achieve a peaceful solution to the gulf crisis. -In Tokyo, Foreign leaders gathered for Emperor Akihito's enthronement were pessimistic about a peaceful solution to the gulf crisis, an aide to Vice President Dan Quayle said on condition of anonymity.