In a move that completed a tumultuous, six-month shakeup of top management, Apple Computer Inc. hired Robert Puette, a longtime Hewlett-Packard Co. executive, to lead the company's domestic division. As president of Apple USA, Puette will be responsible for all sales, marketing and support activities in this country. Puette, whose appointment was announced Tuesday, worked 24 years at Hewlett-Packard, where he led the launch, development and expansion of its worldwide personal computer business. Most recently, he was general manager of Hewlett-Packard's Personal Computer Group. ``Bob Puette's arrival marks a major milestone in the development of Apple's USA business,'' said Michael Spindler, Apple's chief operating officer. ``He has a proven ability to effectively manage large, complex organizations. He's demonstrated exceptional business and technical expertise in the global personal computer market. And he's known for his strong and thoughtful leadership.'' Puette, 48, joins Apple on July 1. He fills a vacancy left by the sudden resignation in January of Allen Loren. Puette will report to Spindler, who was promoted to his position after Loren resigned. Apple, ranked No. 2 behind Hewlett-Packard in the personal computer market, badly needs help in the domestic market. The job of Apple USA's president is considered so tough that several leading candidates turned it down, industry sources said. High prices for its computers have lost the company sales in homes, schools and small businesses. In addition, morale in Apple's U.S. operations has been shaken by layoffs and employee unrest over various corporate issues, including high salaries paid to key managers, analysts said. ``I think that this is the turning point for Apple USA,'' Puette said. ``I think the turmoil is going to pretty well disappear and you're going to see some strong marketing messages from the company.'' New, low-cost machines expected to be announced later this year will have a significant impact on the market, Puette predicted.