A woman who once claimed she was David Letterman's wife was charged Monday with breaking into the talk-show host's home for a sixth time _ two days after her release from prison for an earlier break-in. Margaret Ray, 37, of Crawford, Colo., was arrested at 12:46 a.m. Monday and charged with first-degree trespassing when she was found near the tennis court on Letterman's property, said police Sgt. Nick Warren. Letterman called to report seeing her in the hallway of his home, Warren said. Warren said Ray had also been there the day before. Letterman had called Sunday to report a broken window, and when police went to investigate, they found her in the house, escorted her off the property and warned her not to come back. Ray was held overnight on $1,000 bond and taken to Norwalk Superior Court on Monday afternoon, where a psychiatric evaluation was ordered, said a spokeswoman in the public defender's office. Ray was taken to the Niantic State Prison for women and is due back in court April 4. It was Ray's sixth arrest in two years for bothering the host of NBC's ``Late Night with David Letterman.'' She was released last Friday from the Niantic prison, where she had served seven months of a nine-month sentence for trespassing at his home last August, said William Flower, a Department of Correction spokesman. An NBC publicist, Rosemary Keenan, said Letterman had no comment on the arrest. Ray, who last year described Letterman as the ``dominant figure in my life,'' was first arrested in May 1988, when she was stopped driving his Porsche near the Lincoln Tunnel in New York City. She identified herself as Mrs. Letterman and her son as David Jr. when she was unable to pay the $3 toll. Authorities said she took the car after breaking into his house and setting up housekeeping. Letterman initially declined to press charges, but she was charged with trespassing when she returned a second time. Ray was arrested again on Feb. 24, 1989, and four days later when she was found again on the property. She pleaded guilty in June and was sentenced to three years' probation, to be served in Colorado. But police nabbed her a fifth time on Aug. 24. The following day, she was sentenced to nine months in Niantic for violating her probation.