A former high-ranking state senator was sentenced Monday to 12 years in federal prison for corruption uncovered in an FBI sting in which he sold influence for campaign contributions. Paul Carpenter stood silently when U.S. District Judge Edward Garcia sentenced him, declining an offer to speak. Carpenter, a silver-haired 62-year-old Democrat from suburban Los Angeles, was convicted in September of racketeering, extortion and conspiracy. The charges followed an undercover operation at the state capital. In the sting, an FBI agent posing as a businessman paid Carpenter $20,000 in campaign contributions to get a bill through the Legislature. At Carpenter's trial, other instances were cited of his shaking down lobbyists for campaign money. Carpenter, who must surrender to authorities by Jan. 7, was also ordered to repay $20,000 he received from an FBI undercover agent in the sting operation. ``It's a case of proven acceptance of bribery money and extortion of money in the form of political contributions,'' said the judge, who called the evidence against Carpenter ``overwhelming.'' The judge also observed that the former lawmaker felt no remorse. He said Carpenter's punishment was intended to deter others. Carpenter will be eligible for parole in four years. Carpenter's attorney, Gerard Hinckley, said he would appeal the sentence. A former Senate Democratic Caucus chairman, Carpenter was for several years one of that body's top fundraisers. After 12 years in the Senate, he was elected in 1986 to the Board of Equalization. His sentencing removes Carpenter from the powerful state tax board. Carpenter was the second elected state official snagged in the five-year FBI probe. Joseph Montoya was still a state senator when he was convicted in February of racketeering, extortion and money laundering. He is serving a 6{-year prison sentence. The investigation is continuing. So far four other people have pleaded guilty to charges that flowed from it - two former legislative aides and two former county law enforcers. Another two former legislative aides are awaiting trial. Most of the charges against Carpenter related to his dealings with John Brennan, an FBI agent who posed as Alabama businessman Jack Gordon. The agent paid Carpenter $20,000 in campaign contributions as a payoff for Carpenter's help in getting a bill through the Senate to finance a fictitious shrimp business. Carpenter said he told an aide he wouldn't take the money unless he was assured that he wouldn't have to do anything in return. However, the next day, in a tape-recorded conversation with Brennan, Carpenter promised to serve as the bill's problem-solver and to ``stroke'' the state treasurer to remove opposition to the measure. The bill was approved by the Legislature but vetoed by Gov. George Deukmejian, who was tipped off to the FBI investigation.