The ms Westerdam was relaunched in March after a $65 million makeover transforming her into the largest cruise ship ever in Holland America's fleet. The ship, formerly the Homeric, is namesake of one of the best-known passenger ships of the post-World War II era. Capacity has been increased from 1,000 to 1,494 passengers with the insertion of a 130-foot section at mid-ship. The company says the expansion, carried out at the Meyer Werft shipyard in Papenburg, West Germany, is the largest ever for a passenger ship. The ship's interior has been re-done, including the addition of an 800-seat two-deck show lounge, expanded restaurant and meeting facilities, and a new sports and sunbathing area on the topmost deck. A collection of 17th and 18th century art evoking Dutch world exploration, valued at more than $1 million, is part of the ship's decor. First cruises were scheduled for Bermuda and the Caribbean. A Panama cruise, featuring a daylight passage through the Canal, will depart from New York in May and call at Ft. Lauderdale, St.Thomas, V.I.; Castries, St. Lucia; Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela; Willemstad, Curacao; Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta and Cabo San Lucas, Mexico; Los Angeles; San Francisco; and Vancouver. From Vancouver, the ship will offer summer cruises to Alaska's Inside Passage. As the Homeric, the ship was acquired by Holland America in l988. She was re-christened after the four-month transformation which began last fall. The first Westerdam had an eventful history, being sunk in Scheidam Harbor three times during World War II, first during an Allied attack on the Nazi-held city in l940 and twice in l944 by Dutch Resistance fighters to thwart her wartime use by the enemy occupiers. The original Westerdam was raised after the war and made her maiden transatlantic crossing to New York in 1946. She was retired and scrapped in l964. _ The choice of air travel to Grenada will be wider for U.S. travelers with the inauguration of American Airlines' daily service to St. George's via its San Juan hub, beginning in late June. Traffic will be handled through a new terminal being completed this spring at Point Salines International Airport. _ BWIA-International, the only other carrier with flights from the U.S. to Grenada, also has added new schedules to Aruba, Curacao and Martinique. The Caribbean-based airline operates 51 weekly flights to the area from New York, Baltimore-Washington, Miami and Toronto. _ British Rail isn't part of the Eurailpass system, but for travelers who want to visit both England and France, it has introduced the BritFrance Railpass. This single pass is good for travel on the entire British and French rail network, available for any five days out of 15 or 10 days of a month. Prices start at $199. The railroad also has inaugurated its InterCity 225 with a link between London and the Midlands city of Leeds. It travels at speeds of up to 140 mph and is the fastest train in Britain. _ You don't have to sacrifice a tour guide's help while driving yourself around the British Isles. The Silver Service package from Kenning Car Rental includes a cassette which can be inserted into the rental car's tape deck to point out the sights as you drive. Tapes cover tours of London and the South; Manchester, the Midlands and the North; and Scotland. The company also supplies road maps and a directory of Tourist Information Centres around the country, where the motorist can get local tourist information or accommodation booking help. _